Papers relating to the Transition from
Spanish to American rule
1821
801867–56—2






PART ONE”
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
[Received February 17, 1821]
D* SIR, I enclose the letter from M* Duval in relation to whom I
conversed with you last evening. He is a very worth man and is very
competent to fill the place of a judge or District attorney. I would
be much gratified with his appointment.”
With Sincere respect J. C. CALHOUN
HON. J. Q. ADAMS.
|Addressed] The Sect” of State [Messenger] War Dept
[Endorsed] W* P Duval Calhoun Jn C. Wasn—RCd 17th feby 1821
Ent recommends W* P Duval as Judge or District Att" in florida.
! Documents presented in Part One have relevance, in the main, to the civil
and military occupation of the provinces of East Florida and West Florida subse-
quent to the treaty of cession of 1819. The first documents here reproduced,
embodying a recommendation for appointments in the proposed new government
of Florida, are dated a few days prior to the exchange of ratifications of the
Spanish treaty. It was known in Washington of course early in 1821 that the
Floridas would shortly become an integral part of the United States and that
both an interim administration and a permanent territorial government would
successively follow the exchange of ratifications. During 1819 and 1820, when
expectation was high that the cession in question would be consummated at an
early date, many persons were recommended for office—names being proposed
for the offices of Governor, Secretary, Judges, Collectors et cetera. Some of the
names proposed were those of men of local prominence, such as the Governors of
Maine and North Carolina, Nathaniel Ware, a former Secretary of the territories
of Mississippi and Alabama, and William S. Fulton, who was to become in later
years successively Secretary and Governor of Arkansas Territory. But only one
person out of the many recommended in 1819 and 1820 received an appointment:
William G. D. Worthington, of Maryland, for whom see post p. 35, n.
* Other recommendations on behalf of DuVal as judge are in NA (SD, Applica-
tions). Rep. Thomas Montgomery (Ky.) wrote the President, Feb. 16, 1821,
stating he had received a letter from DuVal expressing an interest in an appoint-
ment as governor or judge. Sen. Ninian Edwards (Ill.) recommended DuVal
for a judicial appointment in a letter to the Secretary of State, Feb. 21, 1821.
See also post p. 42.
3



4 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
[Enclosure:ALS)
William P. DuVal” to the Secretary of War
BARDS-Town [Ky.) Jany 27* 1821—
D* SIR It appears almost cirtain (if we can credit the papers of
the day) that Spain has ratifyed the treaty—
If this news be true, I suppose the immediate possession of that
country will be assumed by our Goverment—If a judge is to ap-
pointed with a compitent, Salary for this new country I will accept
it or any other appointment there in which I can be of service to my
Country—I would indeed prefer a situation nearer, Kentucky—but
I know of none, I however, submit to your judgement and will be
governed by it, whatever your friendship, to me my sugest, as best
for me, I will pursue,
Yours with esteem W* P, DUVAL
HON* J. C, CALHOWN
[Addressed| Hon" John C. Calhown Secretary at War Washington
City Free
[Endorsed] Ent"
FREEMAN WALKER. 4 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
SENATE CHAMBER, 19° Feby 1821.
DEAR SIR I this day had the honor of transmitting to the Presi-
dent, the names of several persons" who are Candidates for office in
Florida—Among the rest, were two of my particular friends—George
* William Pope DuVal (1784–1854), a native of Virginia, was of French Hugue-
not forbears. He left home while still a youth and lived for more than two years
as a frontiersman in Kentucky. At the age of 18 he began the study of law at
Bardstown, being admitted to the bar two years later. During the War of 1812
he served in Indiana as a captain of mounted rangers. He was a Representative
in Congress from Kentucky, 1813–1815, returning at the end of the term to the
practice of law at Bardstown. Appointed judge in East Florida (post, p. 42),
he served at St. Augustine for about a month in Nov.-Dec., 1821. He undertook
a trip to Washington partly at public request to act as unofficial delegate and was
successful in obtaining Congressional support of his appointment as Governor
(post, p. 469). See James O. Knauss, “William Pope DuVal, Pioneer and State
Builder” (Fla. Hist. Quar., XI (Jan. 1933]), pp. 95–139, and Dict. Amer. Biog., V,
557–558, art. by Knauss. DuVal uniformly signed himself as “DuVal” though
his name usually appears in print as “Duval.”
* A Senator of the United States from Georgia.
* The other persons, all from Augusta, Ga., recommended in this communi-
cation to the President by Walker and Reid, on Feb. 17, 1821, were as follows:
Joseph Hutchinson as receiver of public moneys, Peter Boisclair as marshal,
John Kinney, Jr., as collector at Pensacola, Thomas F. Wells as attorney general,
and John Gindrat as postmaster at Pensacola (NA, SD, Applications).
-



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 5
Walton and Jesiah Sturges Beers" of Augusta—As you will no doubt
have much to do, with the organization of the contemplated Govern-
ment—I trust you will excuse me, for calling your attention to the
names before mentioned. Col” George Walton,” the person first
named, is the only son of the late George Walton, of Georgia, one of
the patriots of the revolution, and one of those worthies who signed
the declaration of Independence—But Col” Waltons claims are not
alone those of inheritance— he is a gentleman of liberal education
and of great respectibility—And aspires to the office of Secretary of
State—for which appointment I think him well qualified. Mº Beers
the other person mentioned is a gentleman of industry, integrity &
ability and well qualified to fill the office of Post Master at Augus-
tine—the appointment solicited for him.
If there should not be other Candidates for these offices—having
higher claims to your consideration—I should feel much gratified by
their receiving your approbation.
I have the honor to be with very great respect Yº Obt S*
FREEMAN WALKER
I am well acquainted with the Gentlemen recommended in the
foregoing letter, & it affords me pleasure to say, that they are persons
of the highest respectability & every way qualified to discharge the
duties of the offices they desire to obtain.
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID 8
[Addressed] The Hon" John Q. Adams
[Endorsed] 19. Feby. 1821. Mess" Walker & Reid George Walton
Recommend George Walton & Sturges Beers. Ent
AN ACT ENABLING THE PRESIDENT TO TAKE POSSESSION
OF EAST AND WEST FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Original Statutes "I
[March 3, 1821]
An Act for carrying into execution the Treaty between the United States
and Spain, concluded at Washington, on the twenty-second day of
February, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen.”
* Jonathan Sturgis Beers.
* Walton was also recommended by Sen. Ninian Edwards of Ill. (Charles F.
Adams, ed., Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, Philadelphia, 1874–1877, 12 vols.,
V, 291). See post, p. 43.
* A Representative in Congress from Georgia.
"Printed also in 3 STAT. 637–639.
* The best edition of the text of this treaty, the original of which is in NA
(SD, Treaties), is by David Hunter Miller (ed.), Treaties and other International



6 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled,” That the President of the
United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to take possession of,
and occupy, the territories of East and West Florida, and the append-
ages and appurtenances thereof; and to remove and transport the
officers and soldiers of the King of Spain, being there, to the Havanna,
agreeably to the stipulations of the Treaty between the United States
and Spain, concluded at Washington on the twenty-second day of
February, in the year one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, pro-
viding for the cession of said territories to the United States; and he
may, for these purposes, and in order to maintain in said territories
the authority of the United States, employ any part of the army and
navy of the United States, and the militia of any state or territory,
which he may deem necessary.”
Acts of the United States of America (Washington, 1931–1948, 8 vols.), III, 3–20. It
is also printed in 8 STAT. 252–273; 18 STAT. pt. 2, 712–718; and A. S. P., For. Rels.,
IV, 623–625. An authoritative treatment of the negotiations leading to the treaty
is by Philip C. Brooks, Diplomacy and the Borderlands; the Adams-Onis Treaty of
1819 (Berkeley, 1939), passim. This work also contains a comprehensive bibli-
ography of relevant manuscript sources and secondary works.
11 The legislative history of this act may be found in House Journal, 16 Cong.,
2 sess., pp. 282, 300, 303, 319, 320, 323, 324, 327; Senate Journal, 16 Cong., 2 sess.,
pp. 226, 253,271. No debate is reported in Annals of Congress. Cf. similar act
approved Oct. 31, 1803 (Terr. Papers, Orleans, Ix, 89–90).
An earlier act, approved Mar. 3, 1819 (3 STAT. 523–524), had been inoperative
because of the long delay of Spain in confirming the treaty and in effecting an agree-
ment with the United States respecting an exchange of ratifications. A provision
of the treaty of cession prescribed a period of six months from date of signature
within which affirmations by the respective parties should take place. For the
United States, the Senate acted on Feb. 25, 1819 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 177).
But Spain hesitated until and beyond the expiration of the date fixed for the
completion of the transaction (exchange of ratifications). In this connection it
was believed by the administration in Washington that Spain's reluctance
was due to the American contention that the three large land grants made
by the King to Alagon, Puñonrostro, and Vargas, respectively, should be invali-
dated. In the end the American fear in this regard was groundless. Actually,
the delay was due to two factors: (1) Spain's desire to secure an assurance from
the United States that she would not extend recognition to the new South Amer-
ican republics (a condition which the United States rejected), and (2) the unfor-
tunate appointment of John Forsyth as U. S. Minister to Spain in 1819 with
instructions to urge early action on the treaty. But Forsyth's tactics were
crude and his language insulting, and he was thus totally ineffective. The
friendly intervention of France, however, paved the way for ratification, as well
as for the exchange of ratifications in Washington on Feb. 22, 1821, exactly two
years after the signing of the treaty. See comprehensive explanatory and inter-
pretative notes relative to the text of the treaty, its negotiation, signing, ratifica-
tion and exchange of ratifications, by Miller (ed.), op. cit., pp. 31–64. See also
Niles’ Reg., XX, 39–42, and A. S. P., For. Rels., v., 127–132 respecting the ex-
change. The treaty was proclaimed by the President Feb. 22, 1821.
* See commissions of Andrew Jackson, post, pp. 9, 18.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 7
SEC: 2. And be it further enacted, That, until the end of the first
session of the next Congress, unless provision for the temporary
government of said territories be sooner made by Congress, all the
military, civil, and judicial powers exercised by the officers of the
existing government of the same territories, shall be vested in such
person, and persons, and shall be exercised in such manner, as the
President of the United Shall direct, for the maintaining the inhabit-
ants of said territories in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property,
and religion; * and the laws of the United States relating to the
revenue and its collection, subject to the modification stipulated by the
fifteenth article of the said Treaty, in favor of Spanish vessels and
their cargoes, and the laws relating to the importation of persons of
color, shall be extended to the said territories. And the President of
the United States shall be, and he is hereby, authorized, within the
time aforesaid, to establish such districts for the collection of the
revenue, and, during the recess of Congress, to appoint such officers,
whose commission shall expire at the end of the next session of Con-
gress, to enforce the said laws, as to him shall seem expedient.
SEC: 3. And be it further enacted, That the President of the United
States be, and he is hereby, authorized to appoint, during the recess of
the Senate, a commissioner and surveyor, whose commissions shall
expire at the end of the next session of Congress, to meet the com-
missioner and surveyor who may be appointed on the part of Spain,
for the purposes stipulated in the fourth article of said Treaty; and
that the President be, and he is hereby, further authorized to take all
other measures which he shall judge proper, for carrying into effect
the stipulations of the said fourth article.”
SEC: 4. And be it further enacted, That a Board of three com-
missioners shall be appointed conformably to the stipulations of the
eleventh article of the said Treaty; and the President of the United
States is hereby authorized to take any measures which he may deem
expedient, for organizing the said Board of Commissioners; and, for
this purpose, may appoint a Secretary well versed in the French and
Spanish languages, and a clerk; which appointments, if made during
* The portion of section 2 to this point is virtually identical with section 2 of
the act pertaining to the occupation of Louisiana (Terr. Papers, Orleans, IX, 90).
The administration understood the above provision to mean that the local laws of
the area in question should remain in force until changed by the Congress, which
was in accordance with historical precedent. See ibid., p. 90, n., containing a
citation to the case of Campbell v. Hall, relating to the status of Grenada and the
decision of Lord Mansfield, as well as other pertinent references.
* This related to the boundary between the United States and Spanish territory
west of the Mississippi River, concerning which see Thomas M. Marshall, A
History of the Western Boundary of the Louisiana Purchase, 1819–1841 (Berkeley,
1914).



8 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
the recess of the Senate, shall, at the next meeting of that body, be
subject to nomination for their advice and consent.”
SEC: 5. And be it further enacted, That the compensation of the
respective officers, for whose appointment provision is made by this
act, shall not exceed the following sums: The Commissioner to be
appointed conformably to the fourth article, at the rate, by the year,
of three thousand dollars. To the Surveyor two thousand dollars.
To each of the three Commissioners to be appointed conformably to
the eleventh article of the Treaty three thousand dollars. To the
Secretary of the Board two thousand dollars. To one clerk, one
thousand five hundred dollars.
SEC: 6. And be it further enacted, That for carrying this act into
execution, the sum of one hundred thousand dollars be, and hereby is
appropriated, to be taken from any moneys in the Treasury not other-
wise appropriated.”
JoHN W. TAYLOR Speaker of the House of Representatives
JoHN GAILLARD President of the Senate pro tempore
Washington March 3° 1821. approved
JAMES MONROE.
I certify that this act originated in the House of Representatives
Attest, THO. DoughERTY C H R
COMMISSION OF ANDREW JACKSON AS COMMISSIONER
TO TAKE POSSESSION OF EAST AND WEST FLORIDA
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol. 59:DS 17)
[March 10, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Patriotism, and Abilities of MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON of
Tennessee, I have appointed him Commissioner of the United States
º
!
* By article 11 of the treaty the United States undertook to pay the claims of
American citizens against Spain up to the amount of $5,000,000. President
Monroe, on March 31, 1821, appointed a board of three commissioners, viz.,
Hugh L. White, of Tenn., William King, of Me., and John W. Green, of Va.
Green did not serve and was replaced on May 9 by Littleton W. Tazewell, of Wa.
For an account of the work of the board, see John B. Moore, History and Digest of
the International Arbitrations to which the United States Has Been a Party (Washing-
ton, 1898, 6 vols.), V, 4499–4518, and for a list of printed documents relative to
the board, see Adelaide R. Hasse, Indez to United States Documents Relating to
Foreign Affairs, 1828–1861 (Washington, 1914–1921, 3 vols.), III, 1549.
1° See post, p. 23.
17 Copy also in NA (SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.); it is printed in H. Doc.
No. 1, 17 Cong., 1 sess., and in S. Doc. No. 1, 17 Cong., 1 sess.; reprinted in
the Pensacola Floridian, Mar. 4, 1822, and in A. S. P., For. Rela., IV, 751.
º



FLORIDA. T E R R I TOR Y 9
with full power and authority to him to take possession of and occupy
the territories ceded by Spain to the United States, by the Treaty
concluded at Washington on the twenty second day of February, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and nineteen; and for that
purpose to repair to the said Territories and there to execute and
perform all such acts and things touching the premises as may be
necessary for fulfiling his appointment conformable to the said Treaty,
and the laws of the United States: and I do moreover authorize the
said ANDREW JACKSON to appoint any person or persons in his stead
to receive possession of any part of the said ceded Territories, according
to the stipulations of the said Treaty.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Wash-
ington the tenth day of March, A. D. 1821; and of the Independence
of the United States of America, the Forty Fifth.
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
John QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State
COMMISSION OF ANDREW JACKSON AS GOVERNOR 19
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol. 59:DS 10]
[March 10, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting:
Whereas the Congress of the United States by An Act passed on
the third day of the present month * did provide that until the end
*See supra (sec. 1).
* Jackson had been offered the appointment in 1819, at a time when it was
believed early ratification of the treaty of cession would be made by Spain, but
he declined. The President renewed the offer in a letter of Jan. 24, 1821, and
Jackson replied on Feb. 11, 1821, indicating his acceptance on condition that as
soon as the territorial government was organized he be permitted to resign. For
these and other relevant letters, see John S. Bassett (ed.), Correspondence of
Andrew Jackson (Washington, 1926–1935, 7 vols.), III, 38–41. Jackson's salary
as Governor did not begin until June 1, 1821, the day following the termination of
his services as Major General in the Army. The account for his services as
Governor from June 1, 1821, to Jan. 1, 1822, in the amount of $2,921.19, is in
LC(Jackson Papers, Mil. Papers, xIII) and in NA(GAO, Fifth Auditor's Report
on Acct. of Andrew Jackson, No. 1162, Aug. 17, 1822). See also post, p. 21, n.
* There is a copy in NA(SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.); it is also printed in A. S. P.,
For. Rels., Iv, 751–752, and in Niles' Reg., xxi, 135–136.
* Ante, p. 5.



10 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
of the first Session of the next Congress, unless provision be sooner
made for the temporary Government of the Territories of East and
West Florida, ceded by Spain to the United States, by the Treaty
between the said Parties concluded at Washington on the twenty
second day of February, one thousand eight hundred and Nineteen,
all the military civil and judicial powers exercised by the officers of
the existing government of the same, shall be vested in such person
and persons, and shall be exercised in such manner as the President
of the United States shall direct, for maintaining the inhabitants of
said Territories in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property and
religion. Now Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence
in the Integrity, Patriotism and Abilities of MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW
JACKSON, I do in virtue of the above recited Act appoint him to
exercise within the said ceded Territories under such limitations as
have been or may hereafter be prescribed to him by my instructions,
and by law, all the powers and authorities heretofore exercised by the
Governor and Captain General and Intendant of Cuba, and by the
Governors of East and West Florida within the said provinces respec-
tively; and do authorize and empower him the said ANDREW JACKSON
to execute and fulfil the duties of this present appointment according
to law; and to Have and to Hold the same with all its powers and
privileges until the end of the next Session of Congress unless pro-
vision be sooner made for the temporary government of the said
Territories so ceded by Spain to the United States; Provided however
and it is the true intent and meaning of these presents that the said
Andrew Jackson or any person acting under him or in the said ter-
ritories shall have no power or authority to lay or collect any new or
additional taxes or to grant or confirm to any person or persons
whomsoever any title or claims to lands within the same.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to
L. S. be made patent and the Seal of the United States to be
hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of
* Various recommendations are on file in NA (SD, Applications) for the appoint-
ment to the governorship of Florida Territory. Gov. John Branch, of N. C., was
recommended by Weldon N. Edwards, Felix Walker, Thomas H. Hall, Charles
Fisher, Hutchins G. Burton, William Davidson, Charles Hooks, Lewis Williams,
and John Culpepper, all Representatives in Congress from that State, by
Sen. Montfort Stokes (N. C.), to the President, Jan. 31, 1821, and by
Sen. Nathaniel Macon (N. C.) to id., Feb. 23, 1821. George M. Troup, a former
Senator and former Representative in Congress from Ga., was recommended by
Rep. Joel Crawford (Ga.) in an unaddressed letter of Feb. 1, 1821. William
Carroll, of Nashville, Tenn., was recommended by Andrew Hynes of that place,
to the President, Feb. 4, 1821, and by Rep. Henry Clay (Ky.) to the Sec. of State,
Mar. 1, 1821. Thomas Flournoy, of Augusta, Ga., was recommended by Sen.
John Williams (Tenn.), Sen. Freeman Walker (Ga.), and by Reps. Thomas W.
Cobb and Robert Raymond Reid, of Ga., to the President, Feb. 17, 1821.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 11
Washington the tenth day of Marchá.D. 1821; and of the Independence
of the United States of America, the Forty Fifth.”
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Gen' Jackson's commission as Governor of Florida
March 10th 1821
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO JAMES GRANT FORBES
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xviiI2]
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 10. March 1821
JAMES GRANT FORBES Esquire
SIR. The President of the United States having occasion to em-
ploy a person to take to the Spanish Governor General of the Island
of Cuba, the order from his Government for the delivery of the Prov-
inces of East and West Florida, to the Commissioners or Officers of the
United States duly appointed to receive them, has selected you as
the Agent for that purpose, and a Certificate to that effect from this
Department, will be delivered to you with this Letter.
You will forthwith repair to New York, and there take passage in
the United States Sloop of War, Hornet, Captain Read, who will be
instructed to receive you, and to proceed as soon as possible to the
Havanna. The order to the Governor General of Cuba, together
with the Letter from the Spanish Minister General Wives to him, is
committed to you; and you will deliver it to him in person upon your
arrival—You will urge the immediate execution of it, and will offer
to take charge yourself, of the Governor Generals order to the Gover-
nor of West Florida—should he prefer to transmit this by an Officer
of his own appointment, Captain Read will be authorized to give
him a passage with you in the Ship to Pensacola—You will also
concert with him the means of transmitting the order for the delivery
of the Province of East Florida, to the Governor at S*Augustine—It
has been represented that the Archives and public Documents, Stip-
ulated to be delivered up by the Treaty are at the Havanna; and if
so you will require that they should be delivered to you, and take
them with you in the ship to Pensacola, where you will keep them
in safe custody till the arrival of Major General Andrew Jackson,
who is appointed Governor of the whole of the territories ceded, and
to whom you will deliver them over, or to his order taking a suitable
receipt or receipts for them by duplicate, one of which you will trans-
mit to this Department.
*See special commission as Governor, post, p. 18.
*Printed also in A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 740–741.



12 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
On arriving at Pensacola and communicating to the Governor the
Order from the Governor of Cuba, you will immediately give notice
by expresss to General Jackson who will be at Montpelier,” in the vi-
cinity of that place, that he may repair to it to receive possession;
and you will then remain at Pensacola, giving information to this
Department, through the nearest mail, believed to be at Blakeley,”
of your proceedings, you will also communicate to this Department
any information relating to the Country, which it may be useful to
us to possess, and wait for such instructions as may be transmitted to
you till the accomplishment of the objects of your Mission.
Your compensation will be at the rate of eight Dollars a day from
the time of your departure from this place, till your arrival at Pensa-
cola—all your expences on the passage are to be at your own charge;
and from the time of your arrival at Pensacola the allowance will be
six Dollars a day till you receive notice that it is to cease—If you then
conclude to return to New York the allowance will be continued for a
reasonable time to admit of your return.
The papers herewith furnished you are,
1. a Certificate of your appointment.”
2. A Commission authorizing you to demand and recieve the Archives*
3. The order to the Governor and Captain General of Cuba,” with a
letter to him from the Spanish Minister here.”
4. Six copies of the Treaty, with the Ratifications, to be used as you
may find convenient.
5. A Copy of the order to the Governor of Cuba.
6. A Copy of the Act of Congress for carrying the Treaty into execu-
tion.*
It is proper to apprize you that if by any accident you should be
prevented from executing the service herewith assigned to you M*
G. L. Thompson has a Commission for performing it in your stead.”
I am &c
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
* This was known as Cantonment Montpelier, a few miles northeast of Camp
Montgomery which was located ten or twelve miles above the confluence of the
Tombigbee and Alabama rivers (Terr. Papers, Ala., xviii, 92–93).
* Located some ten miles northeast of Mobile, on the east bank of the Tensaw
River (ibid., p. 497).
27 Printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 741.
28 Do., ibid.
* Do., ibid., p. 742.
* Don Francisco Dionisio Wives. Letter not seen.
* Ante, p. 5.
* For other correspondence relative to this mission, see A. S. P., op. cit., pp.
742–748. Consult also index to this volume under “Forbes, James Grant.”



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 13
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol. 59: LS*]
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, 12 March 1821.
MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON.
SIR, By direction of the President of the United States, I have
the honor of transmitting to you three Commissions,
1.—As Commissioner to receive possession of the Provinces of
East and West Florida, conformably to the Treaty between the
United States and Spain, concluded on the 22% of February 1819.”
2. As Governor of the whole Territories of which possession is to
be thus taken.”
3. As Commissioner * vested with Special and extraordinary
powers,” conformably to the stipulations of the Treaty and to the
Act of Congress for carrying the same into execution; copies of both
which are also among the enclosures with this letter.
Together with the Spanish Ratification of the Treaty, there was
transmitted to the Spanish Minister at this place a Royal Order, to
the Captain General and Governor of the Island of Cuba,” for de-
livering possession of the Provinces of East and West Florida, accord-
ing to the Stipulations of the second article of the Treaty.
Colonel James G. Forbes has been appointed by the President
Agent & Commissary to deliver this Royal Order to the Governor of
Cuba,” to concert and arrange with him the execution of it, and to
receive any documents or archives which may be at the Havanna,
and which are stipulated to be delivered by this article. A copy of
his Instructions is herewith enclosed; * by which you will perceive,
that he is to deliver over to you all such documents or archives as he
may receive at the Havanna. It is desirable that those relating to
* Copies are also in NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xviii) and in NA (WD, SW Lets.
Reed., A 61); printed in Pensacola Floridian, Mar. 9, 1822, A. S. P., op. cit., pp.
750–751, and Bassett, (ed.), op. cit., pp. 42–44. A copy of this instruction was
transmitted by the Secretary of State to the Secretary of War, Mar. 15, 1821,
and by direction of the President these two officials consulted together on March
20 in regard to the instructions to be issued to Jackson (Memoirs J. Q. Adams,
V, 333). See instruction of the Secretary of War, post, p. 19. The Secretary of
State wrote Jackson on Mar. 23, 1821 (A. S. P., op. cit., p. 753; Bassett (ed.),
op. cit., pp. 44–45), that the opinion of the President was that the cannon belonging
to the fortifications were to be regarded as appendages to them.
* Ante, p. 8.
* Ante, p. 9.
* From the context of this document “Governor” rather than “Commissioner”
was doubtless intended.
* Post, p. 18.
* Oct. 24, 1820, printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 742; v, 281.
* Nicholas Mahy.
* Present; printed supra from another source.



14 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
each of the two Provinces should be kept distinct from each other, and
that this Government should be informed generally of their character
and quantity.
Colonel Forbes is to take passage at New York, in the United
States' Sloop of War Hornet, Captain Read; “and, on arriving at
Pensacola, is to give you immediate notice, that you may repair
thither to receive possession of that place. The Hornet is to remain
there to escort the transports, in which the Spanish officers and troops,
and their baggage, are to be conveyed to the Havanna. The Spanish
Minister has expressed a strong wish, that no troops of the United
States may be introduced into Pensacola or St. Augustine, until after
the evacuation by those of Spain. The object of this request being
to avoid any possible unpleasant altercations between the soldiers of
the two nations, the President thinks it reasonable to comply with
it, unless you should be of opinion that it will be attended with incon-
venience. In that event, he relies that you will take every measure
of precaution which may be necessary to guard against any such
collisions between the soldiers; and he trusts with confidence that in
every arrangement for the evacuation, the utmost delicacy will be ob-
served to avoid every thing which might tend to wound the feelings
of any of the Spanish officers, soldiers, or subjects, who are to remove.
It is the President's desire, that you should appoint General Gaines,”
or such other Officer as you may deem expedient, to receive possession
of St. Augustine; and that the same Instructions should be applied
to the execution of that Service. The United States' Brig Enterprize,
or Sch. Porpoise, will be ordered to proceed to that place, to escort
the transports which are to convey the Spanish officers and troops
thence to the Havanna. The care of providing the transports at both
places is referred to you. The number of troops at either place is
not known, but supposed to amount to about 500 men at each. The
stipulation is understood to include civil as well as military officers,
and provisions as well as passage: Instructions will be given by the
Secretary of War to the Quarter-Masters * and Commissaries to fur-
nish to your orders provisions and transports for the conveyance of
the Spanish officers and troops. It is expected they will be supplied
* George C. Read.
* Edmund Pendleton Gaines.
* Major Henry Stanton, at New Orleans, was instructed, on Mar. 21, 1821,
to arrange for provisions and transportation for the Spanish garrisons of Pensacola
and St. Marks and for the American troops which were to occupy West Florida.
On the same day Capt. George Bender, at Boston, was ordered to provide trans-
portation for three companies of light artillery from that port to Florida, the
transports to be retained to convey the Spanish garrison from East Florida to
Havana (NA, WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 3). In the same source, and in the
QMG Lets. Recd., are a few other letters on the execution of the foregoing orders.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 15
at New Orleans and Mobile, for those to embark within the Gulph,
and at Savannah and Charleston for those going from St. Augustine.
A copy and translation of the Royal Order to the Governor of Cuba,
for delivering the possession of the Provinces, are among the enclosures
herewith. You will observe, that it includes expressly the islands
appertinent to them. It will be proper that attention should be paid
to taking possession of all these islands; but it may not be necessary
that a formal delivery of them in every case should be made.
On receiving from the Governors of West and East Florida posses-
sion of those respective Provinces, it will be proper to exchange certifi-
cates of the time and mode of the transaction: orders for the delivery
of any military posts within the Provinces will be expected, and they
will be occupied by detachments of our troops as you may deem
expedient.
As soon as the possession shall be transferred, you will, in pursuance
of your authority over the ceded territories, issue proclamations
announcing the fact. A form,” adopted from that which was issued
on the first occupation of Louisiana,” is herewith enclosed, to be
modified as the circumstances in your opinion may require.
The powers, vested in you by the enclosed Commissions, are also
conformable to those which were entrusted to the Governor of
Louisiana,” under an Act of Congress of similar import.” The
President is satisfied that they will be exercised by you with a due
regard as well to the privileges and usages of the inhabitants under
the Government to which they have been subject, as to the personal
and social rights to which they will be entitled by the stipulations of
the Treaty, and as associates to the Union of these States. The
money paid into the Spanish treasury before the delivery of posses-
sion, and whatever may be due thereto at that date, is to be con-
sidered as the property of Spain. Payments and debts subsequent
to that date, will belong of course to the United States.
The laws of the United States relating to the revenue and its
collection, and those relating to the introduction of persons of color,
being extended, by the Act of Congress, to the Territory,” the execu-
tion of them will be superintended by officers to be appointed for the
several collection districts to be established by the President con-
formably to the law.
* Printed, A. S. P., op. cit., IV, 752–753.
* See Governor Claiborne's proclamation of Dec. 20, 1803, in Dunbar Rowland
(ed.), Official Letter Books of W. C. C. Claiborne, 1801–1816 (Jackson, Miss., 1917,
6 vols), 1, 307–309.
* Terr. Papers (Orleans), IX, 91–94.
* Ibid., pp. 89–90.
* Ante, p. 5.



16 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Your compensation as Governor will be at the rate of five thousand
dollars a year. As Commissioner for receiving possession of the
Provinces,” such reasonable expenses as may be incurred will be
allowed. Whenever your military command ceases, your salary as
Governor will commence.
In the taking of possession of St. Augustine and East-Florida, similar
proceedings to those relative to the occupation of West-Florida will
be proper. Both Provinces being placed under your direction, the
Proclamation to be issued there will be in your name; and General
Gaines, or such other officer as you may appoint, will be instructed to
consider himself, for all the purposes of the Government, subject to
your orders.
At the ensuing session of Congress, it is to be presumed one of the
earliest objects of attention to that body will be, to make further
provision for the Government of these territories.” The President
wishes you, in the interval, to collect and communicate to this
Department any information, relating to the country and its inhabit-
ants, which may be useful to the exercise of the legislative authority
of the Union concerning them.
For the expenses incident to the services herewith required, you
will draw upon this Department. Strict economy is to be observed
in incurring them; and I have urgently to request the transmission,
as early as possible, of all the accounts resulting from them with the
vouchers necessary for their settlement at the Treasury.*
I am with great respect, Sir, your very humble and obed" Serv"
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
P. S. The third commission * being reserved by the President for
consideration is not enclosed.
Papers enclosed.
2 Commissions.
Copy of the Treaty—
do Law for executing it. (in a newspaper)
do Col. Forbes' Instructions.
do Royal order for delivery.
do do (translation)
Form of Proclamations. *
[Endorsed] Letter of Instructiſon] to Gen' Jackson relative to the
Occupation of Florida N° 1.
* Ante, p. 8.
* See post, p. 389.
5. Answered post, p. 28. See also the Secretary of War to Jackson, Mar. 22,
1821 (post, p. 19), relative to the execution of the foregoing instructions.
* Post, p. 18.
* Of the enclosures, this is the only one appearing in NA (SD, Dom. Lets.,
xvi.II); it is printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 752–753.
º



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 17
GULIAN C. VERPLANCK 54 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
ALBANY March 12* 1821
SIR A number of the most respectable members of both houses
of our state legislature having lately joined in recommending M*
Rodman * of New York to the President as a candidate for a collector-
ship or other public office in Florida, I take the liberty to lay before
the government some more particular information respecting this
gentleman. Mr Rodman was bred a merchant and is generally ad-
mitted to be an excellent accountant and man of business. Various
circumstances afterwards led him to the study and profession of the
law in which he acquired a respectable standing and held for some time
the lucrative and honourable place of District Attorney for the city
of New York.
Some important business (in the result of which however he was
unfortunately disappointed) induced him to resign this office and go
to Europe. Being now a widower, having not yet recovered his pro-
fessional business, and believing that a southern climate would be
favorable to his general health he is now induced to try his fortunes
in Florida.
He has paid great attention to modern languages and the civil and
continental law. He writes and speaks French with much accuracy
and fluency and is generally acquainted with the modes of transacting
both public and commercial business on the continent of Europe.
He is besides a man of fair character and of indefatigable industry.
Should the collectorships, for which I understand that he applies, be
otherwise bestowed, M. R. is well qualified for several others of the
offices which will be probably erected under the territorial government.
I am with great respect Your obedient Servant
GULIAN C. VERPLANCK
HON JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
[Addressed] The Secretary of State Washington City [Postmarked]
Albany Mar 14 free
[Endorsed] 12. March 1821. Verplanck Gulian C. Recommends
John Rodman for office in Florida
* A member of the New York State Assembly and subsequently a Representa-
tive in Congress from New York.
* John Rodman himself wrote the President on Feb. 27 and Mar. 8, 1821
applying for appointment as collector of the customs at Pensacola or St. Augustine,
or register of the land officer at the latter place (NA, SD, Applications).
301867–57 3



18 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
SPECIAL COMMISSION OF ANDREW JACKSON AS
GOVERNOR
[LC:Jackson Papers, Vol. 59:DS ºl
[March 20, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
TO ANDREW JACKSON, Greeting:
Whereas by An Act of Congress passed on the third day of the
present month entitled “An Act for carrying into execution the Treaty
between the United States and Spain, concluded at Washington, on
the twenty second day of February, one thousand eight hundred and
nineteen,” ” it is provided that until the end of the first Session of the
next Congress, unless provision be sooner made for the temporary
Government of the Territories ceded by Spain to the United States
by the Treaty concluded at Washington on the twenty second day
of February, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen between the
two Nations, all the Military Civil and judicial powers exercised by
the Officers of the existing Government of the same shall be vested
in such person or persons, and shall be exercised in such manner as
the President of the United States shall direct, for maintaining the
Inhabitants of said Territories in the free enjoyment of their liberty,
property and religion: and Whereas on the tenth day of the present
month, I did by letters patent under the Seal of the United States in
pursuance of the powers vested in me as aforesaid appoint you the
said ANDREW JACKSON to exercise under certain limitations within
the said ceded Territories all the powers and authorities heretofore
exercised by the Governor and Captain General and by the Intendant
of Cuba, and by the Governors of East and West Florida within the
said Provinces respectively, with the clauses and conditions in the
said Letters patent expressed: * and Whereas it appears to me ex-
pedient that you should be vested with the other powers hereinafter
specified: Therefore be it known that in virtue of the above recited
Act of Congress I do by these presents appoint and authorize you the
said ANDREW JACKSON to administer the Government with the
existing authorities in the best manner in your power, for the present,
and to report without delay, the actual State, with such alterations
as you may think adviseable, that further instructions may be given
respecting the same: and I do moreover authorize you to suspend
any officer or officers in the said Territories which the public good
* A copy is in NA(SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.), and is printed, A. S. P., op. cit.,
p. 752. The commission was transmitted, with covering letter of Mar. 20, by
the Secretary of State (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xviii). -
* Ante, p. 5.
* Ante, p. 9.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 19
may seem to you to require, with the exception always of such as are
or may be appointed by the President of the United States, making
a report to this government of your proceedings therein: these Letters
patent are to continue in force until the end of the first Session of the
next Congress, unless provision be sooner made for the temporary
Government of the said Territories so as aforesaid ceded by Spain to
the United States, and unless it should be sooner revoked by the
President of the United States.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twentieth day of March A.D. 1821; and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the Forty Fifth.
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Gen' Jackson's commission, giving him discretionary
power as governor of the Floridas—
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR. JACKSON 59
[LC:Jackson Papers, Vol. 59:LS 40)
DEPARTMENT OF WAR 224 March 1821.
SIR, To execute the instructions, which you have received through
the Department of State to take possession of East and West Florida,"
you will proceed with as little delay as may be practicable to the
Cantonment of Montpelier, where as has been Communicated to you
in your instructions, you will receive notice of the Arrival of Col Forbes
at Pensacola.”
The Deputy Quarter Master MajStanton has been ordered to the
same place, who will receive and execute your Commands, as connected
with the Quarter Masters Department, and the enclosed Copies of
orders from that, and the Commissarys departments will inform you
of the arrangement which has been made as to transports and provi-
* Enclosed by the Secretary of War to the Secretary of State, Mar. 22, 1821
(NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v).
* Copies are in NA (WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11, and SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, v); printed in J. Franklin Jameson (ed.), Corr. Calhoun, Amer. Hist.
Assoc., Annual Rept., 1899, II (Washington, 1900), 181–182.
* Ante, p. 13.
*See ante, p. 11.



20 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
sions. Major Cross * will be ordered “to Amelia Island,” to Super-
intend the arrangements in that quarter, and I trust that on your
arrival at the Cantonment, you will find these arrangements so far
matured, that you will be ready to take possession in a very short
period should the Spanish authorities be prepared to give it. It was
deemed advisable to issue the orders here to avoid any possible delay.
General Gaines has been ordered to this place, where he will be by
the 10° of next month, to aid with his advise and information in the
reduction of the Army; and it is doubtful whether he will return to
his Head Quarters in time to take possession of Sº Augustine, should
you, in the exercise of your powers select him for that purpose; and
I would therefore suggest, in that event, that you should at the same
time give provisional power to some other Officer to act in his place,
should he be absent.
The 4* Regiment of Infantry, and the Company of Artillery at
Mobile will occupy Pensacola, and the Barrancas; the Garrison of
Fort Gadsden,” which will be evacuated, will occupy St Marks,” and
the two Companies of Artillery sent from Boston to Amelia Island,
Sº Augustine. They will be governed in their movements for that
purpose by your orders. The Companies ordered to Amelia Island
and the provisions which has been ordered by the Commissary General
to that place for the transportation of the Spanish Garrison at S*
Augustine to the Havannah, will go in the transports to S' Augustine.
& Trueman Cross, who had recently been Assistant Deputy Quartermaster
General.
* Post, p. 30.
65 Amelia Island, located off the eastern coast of Fla. south of St. Marys River,
had been seized by United States naval and military forces in Dec. 1817 to prevent
its continued use as a base by privateers and smugglers (A. S. P., For. Rels., IV,
132–144). A U. S. garrison occupied Fernandina at the northern tip of the island
and was kept there throughout the remainder of the Spanish tenure in Fla.(ibid.,
p. 744; NA, WD, AGO correspondence files).
* Fort Gadsden had been erected on orders of Gen. Jackson by Lt. James
Gadsden (for whom see post, p. 41, n.) in 1818 on the east bank of the Apalachicola
River in Spanish West Florida. Though other points occupied by American
forces during Jackson's campaign against the Indians in that province in 1818,
including Pensacola, Barrancas, and St. Marks, were evacuated following the
signing of the treaty with Spain, Fort Gadsden remained in U. S. hands (Mark
F. Boyd, “Events at Prospect Bluff on the Apalachicola River, 1808–1818,”
Fla. Hist. Quar., xvi (Oct. 1937], 55–96; Edgar B. Wesley, Guarding the Frontier;
A Study of Frontier Defense from 1815 to 1825 (St. Paul, 1935) pp. 171–173).
67 A fort was built by the Spanish at St. Marks, at the junction of the rivers
St. Marks and Wakulla at the head of Apalachee Bay, during the 1670's (Mark F.
Boyd, “The Fortifications at San Marcos de Apalache,” Fla. Hist. Quar., xv.
[July 1936], 4).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 21
Your Command as Maj General will not, under the Act of Congress
of the 2° inst: * reducing the Army terminate, till the 1* of June next,
to which period your pay in that Capacity will continue.
I have the honor to be Your Obed Ser
J. C. CALHOUN
MAJ GENL ANDREW JACKSON
[Endorsed] Answered, 10 Apr 1821 *
* The act approved Mar. 2, 1821 (3 STAT. 615–616), reducing the peace estab-
lishment to 6,000 men, resulted in the issuance of a general order on May 17
reorganizing the administration of the Army. Eastern and Western Depart-
ments were established divided by a line drawn from the southermost point of
East Florida to the northwestern extremity of Lake Superior, all of Ky. and Tenn.
being included in the Western Department. Thus Florida was divided between
the two departments, East Florida coming under Brig. Gen. Winfield Scott
with headquarters at New York, and West Florida under Brig. Gen. Edmund P.
Gaines with headquarters at Louisville, Ky. This arrangement endured until
1837. The position of Commanding General of the Army, which was reinstituted
at this time after a lapse of 22 years, was filled by Maj. Gen. Jacob Brown, with
headquarters at Washington (Raphael P. Thian, Notes on the Military Geography
of the United States, 1813–1880 (Washington 1881) pp. 63, 106; Wesley, Guarding
the Frontier, pp. 111–113). The act for the reduction of the Army provided for
one major general and two brigadier generals. Jacob Brown as the eldest com-
missioned Major General was to be retained, and the two brigadiers were to be
Scott and Gaines. Since Jackson was not to be retained, the President was
interested, in order to avoid public criticism of a popular figure by the adminis-
tration, in persuading him to accept the appointment as Governor of Florida
Territory (Memoirs, J. Q. Adams, V, 321–322). An address delivered by Jackson
at the close of his military career, May 31, 1821, is in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets.
and Orders, Bk. L) and is printed in the Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 18, 1821,
Niles' Reg., XXI, 52–53, and Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 62–65. As a further result
of the reduction many officers were released who became applicants for civil
positions; some of these were subsequently appointed to office in Florida Territory.
See, for example, index under Humphreys, Gad, and Smith, Joseph L.
On the day that the new organization of the Army came into effect, June 1,
1821, Jackson's career as a Major General terminated. But by virtue of his
commission giving him the military authority previously exercised by the Spanish
Governor and Captain General of Cuba, and the governors of East and West
Florida (ante, p. 18), Jackson continued thereafter and throughout his stay in
Florida to issue orders to the officers commanding the U. S. military forces.
George M. Brooke, colonel of the companies of the Fourth Infantry which garri-
soned Pensacola, communicated with the War Department on the matter. A
discussion of the question occurred at a cabinet meeting on Oct. 23, 1821, in which
the Secretary of State upheld Jackson's right as Captain General to the military
command in Florida. The President, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of
War believed that Jackson's command had ceased, but a decision was postponed
(Memoirs, J. Q. Adams, v, 366–367). See also post, p. 22.
* Post, p. 31.



22 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
THE ADJUTANT GENERAL 70 TO MOSES PORTER
[NA:WD, AGO, Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
ADJ't & INSP: GEN" OFFICE 220 March 1821.
BRIG' GEN' PORTER U. S. Army Boston Mass
SIR, The new distribution of the Army must carry three companies
formed out of the Light Artillery to the south one to Charleston S. C.
and two to St Augustine. The Secretary of War directs that measures
be adopted by you preparatory to carry such arrangment into im-
mediate effect when the final orders shall be given. You will there-
fore select the men conformable to the enclosed circular and report
such officers for the immediate command of the companies as will be
retained under the instructions which the Secretary of War has given
you on that subject.
Capt Lyman " having signified his wish to retire on the reduction
of the Army the Secretary of War authorizes you to grant him an
unlimited furlough.-”
I have the honour to be Yrs &"
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL 78 TO TRUEMAN CROSS
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 3]
March 22d 1821
MAJ T. CROSS Washington City
SIR. The treaty with Spain provides that the Spanish troops
stationed in Florida be transported to Havanna at the expense of the
United States S*Augustine will be occupied by three companies of
Artillery from Boston, and Cap" Bender has been instructed * to
engage the vessels which may be employed in transporting them to
their destination, to proceed afterwards to Havanna with the Spanish
troops. To prevent delay or difficulty, however, it is proper that an
officer be on the spot with full powers to act under all circumstances—
You have been selected for this service, and will, accordingly, proceed
to Fernandina, Amelia Island, and adopt such measures both in regard
to the American & Spanish Troops as in your judgement may be
proper.
Arrangements have been made by the Subsistence department to
supply the Spanish troops with provisions for the voyage.
70 Daniel Parker.
7. William Lyman.
** By an order of Apr. 3, 1821, Porter, who was due to be transferred to other
duty on June 1, was displaced in command of these arrangements by Col. John
Fenwick (NA, WD, AGO Lets. Sent Bk. 6). See loc. cit., and NA (WD, AGO
Lets. Recd.) for other letters by Fenwick on the movement of troops to Florida.
Tº Thomas S. Jesup.
7 Mar. 21, 1821, NA (WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 3).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 23
You will be subject to the orders of General Jackson, and of such
Officers & Commissioners as may be designated by him. -
I have the honor to be &"
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol 59:LS’s)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 23 March, 1821.
MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON. Nashville.
SIR, By the second article of the Florida Treaty, it is stipulated that
with the Territories of East and West Florida, the fortifications within
the same, are ceded and to be delivered to the United States; but no
express mention is made of the Cannon, belonging to them.
By the seventh Article of the same Treaty, it is provided that the
United States shall furnish the transports and escort necessary to
convey the Spanish Officers and troops, and their baggage to the
Havanna—But no mention is made of the transportation of Cannon;
nor is there any express engagement on the part of the United States,
to furnish provisions to the Spanish Officers and Troops on the passage.
It is the opinion of the President, that by a fair and just construction
of the Treaty, the Cannon belonging to the fortifications are to be
considered as appendages to them, included in the Cession, and are
therefore to be left with them.
On the same principle he is of opinion, that with the transports and
escort to convey the Spanish Officers and troops and their baggage,
the provisions necessary for the passage, are also to be furnished at the
expence of the United States, although not specially mentioned in
the Treaty; and orders have accordingly been given for the supply of
provisions.
It is however possible that the Spanish Governors of East and West
Florida, may upon a different construction of the Treaty, claim to
carry away the Cannon from the fortifications, because they are not
expressly named in the Article.
You will in that case claim that they should be left with the fortifica-
tions, and insist that upon the principle of the other Construction
the United States are not bound to furnish provisions for the passage
of the Officers and troops—You will state that the supply has been
ordered in the Confidence, that the benefit of the same liberal Con-
struction of the Treaty will operate in favour of the United States;
and that if it be not extended to them, they will have a just claim to be
reimbursed for the expence of supplying the provisons.
* Copy in NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xviii); printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 753;
Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 44–45.



24 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
You will add that as there is no engagement on their part express
or implied, to furnish the means of transporting the Cannon, they have
made and can make no provision for that purpose.
Should the Spanish Governors alledge that their orders are express,
for having the Cannon carried away, you will leave it to them to make
provision for their transportation, and report forthwith the facts to
this Department.”
I am, with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and Obed" Serv"
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
[Endorsed] 23 March Letter of Instructions from the Secy of State
to Gen' Jackson in the relation to the ordinance in Florida N° 2
ARCHIBALD CLARK TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors:C]
CoLLECTORS OFFICE Dist of St Mary's Geo. 25" March 1821–
HON W H CRAWFORD Sect” of the Treasury Washington City
SIR I Have the Honor to Communicate that information has
reached me officially, of the arrival of Tuo French Wessels (Brigs) &
a British Sch' all ladened with valuable Cargoes which they are now
Discharging on S' Johns River East Florida—
The Department will redily perceive the object these vessels have
in view can only be an evasion of the our Revenue Laws. & it is pre-
sumed from the political State of the province, that but little if any
attention will be paid to the Collection of Duties on Cargoes that may
be Landed by the Authorities of Sº Augustine, before its surrender.
A scene of Speculation, will be presented, by which the Revenue of the
Nation may be seriously impaired—Indeed it has been stated by
persons, that plans have been concerted to throw into the province—
from the British West Indies quantities of British Goods & produce
before the occupation of the Country by the U States, & but little
Doubt remains, in believing that they will succeed, without an early
movement. of the U States to defeat them.”
I have the Honor. to Remain. Most Respectfully Your Obt Serv'.
ARCH* CLARK. Coll.
7" Answered post, p. 30.
77 Answered post, p. 29.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 25
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC:Jackson Papers, Vol. 59:LS 78]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR, 31* March, 1821.
SIR, Mr J. A. Penieres has been appointed by the President sub-agent
to the Indians in Florida and placed under your superintendence as
Governor of Florida. I enclose for your information a copy of the
instructions to him.”
He is a gentleman eminent for his various acquirements, who being
forced from France for political reasons has selected this country for
his residence, and who, in order to become intimately acquainted with
the Indian character has resided several years among the Indians in
the Arkansas Territory.” The knowledge which Mº Penieres has thus
acquired of their Character, his familiar acquaintance with the Spanish
language, and his talents and acquirements will, it is believed, make
him very useful. The fact of his being a Frenchman will, it is thought,
in no degree disqualify him for the duties assigned to him; on the
contrary, the Indians have ever shown to the French a strong attach-
ment, and it may be considered as favorable to the successful discharge
of his duties.
You will give M* Penieres such additional instructions as you may
deem proper. In the selection of an Interpreter, which is of consider-
able importance, you will probably be able to give him such informa-
tion as may be very useful.
We have not yet made formal peace with the Seminoles. Should
you deem it necessary for that purpose, or to impress them more
solemnly with the new relation in which they stand to us, you are
authorized to appoint a special Commissioner, to whom you may
allow a suitable compensation, for the purpose, thro' whom you may
make such communication as you may judge the state of the Case
to require. In the first pressure of emigration and the uncertain
extent of the portion of Florida which may be claimed by the Indians,
it is to be feared that some collision may take place between them
and our citizens; to avoid which it would seem to be advisable to
ascertain from the Spanish authority, as well as the Indians them-
selves, the extent and limits of the country to which they have a
just claim, and to give such information for the guidance of persons
who may wish to emigrate or explore the country as you may think
proper—
* Copies in NA (OIA, SW, Lets. Sent, Bk. E) and in NA (SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, v).
* Present; printed infra, from another source.
* He had also been a resident of Alabama Territory (Terr. Papers, Ala., xviii,
448–449).



26 7" E R R / TO Hº I A L P A P E R S
The President reposing every confidence in your discretion and
judgement, does not think it necessary to give more minute or full
instructions, as he doubts not that, in the discharge of your duty,
the measures the best calculated to promote the public interest will
be adopted by you.”
I have the honor to be, Your Obed" Serv"
J. C. CALHOUN
MAJOR GEN" ANDREW JACKSON, Govt of Florida—
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JEAN A. PENIERES
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR March 31* 1821.
MR. J. A. PENIERES, Sub Agent to the Indians in Florida
SIR, I enclose you an appointment by the President of Sub-Agent
to the Indians residing in the Floridas and you will be placed under
the superintendence of General Jackson the Gov" of Florida through
whom you will communicate with this Dep" and under whose imme-
diate orders you will act.
Your compensation will be at the rate of $500 per year; but as
your duties previous to your permanent location will involve you in
very considerable expense, your extra expense provided it does not
with your pay as Agent exceed $1200 per year will be allowed. You
will be allowed an interpreter whose compensation will be at the rate
of $400 but as no person suitable to discharge the duties of this office
is known to the Department the appointment will be postponed till
a proper selection can be made. In the mean time you are author-
ized with the assent of the Superintendent to employ a person to
act as interpretor at the rate above stated till one can be appointed
by the Department. The person whom you may so appoint you will
through the Superintendent report to this Dept and also state whether
he possesses the necessary qualifications for the permanent discharge
of the duties of an interpretor. Your salary with personal expenses
in the discharge of your duty, the salary of the Interpretor and such
contingent expenses as may be attendant on your intercourse with
the Tribes, such as small presents, provisions &c, will be remitted
to you quarterly on your estimates transmitted to this Dep" through
the superintendent and approved by him.
Your general duty will be indicated by the act of Congress regu-
8. In LC(Jackson Papers, Wols. 58, 59) are letters from the Secretary of War
to Jackson, Mar. 7 and Apr. 8, 1821, expressing his gratification at Jackson's
acceptance of the appointment as Governor; the second letter is printed in Bassett
(ed.), op. cit., pp. 46–47. See post, p. 81.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 27
lating intercourse with the Indian Tribes” of which a copy is en-
closed; but the recent acquisition of Florida and the new relation
which has in consequence been created between the United States
and the Indians residing within its limits, will impose on you new
and peculiar duties.
It is important that the Government should know as early as
practicable the number of Indians residing in Florida, their various
Tribes, the country occupied by them and their disposition towards
the U. States. To obtain this knowledge you will visit the various
portions of the Country inhabited by Indians; and take the necessary
measures to obtain the information required, as accurately as may be
practicable which you will without delay report through the Superin-
tendent to this Department. You will ascertain not only the portion
of the country which they may actually inhabit but also the extent
claimed by them; and the extent of cessions which at various times
may have been made by them to the Spanish or the English Govern-
ments. In the performance of this duty you will visit the greater
portion of the Territory and you will avail yourself of the opportunity
which it will afford to become acquainted with the character of the
country including its Geography, Geology, climate, soil, & face of the
country & its productions animal, vegitable & Mineral, all of which
you will accarately notice and report as above directed, accompanied
by such observations and reflections as you may think proper.
You will make the Indians acquainted with their new relations to the
U. States and impress on them an assurance of being protected
provided they demean themselves peaceably. Situated as they are
and surrounded as they must in a short time be with the white popu-
lation, it will probably become desirable both to them and us to make
hereafter a new Disposition of them either by concentrating them at
some one point in Florida, or by giving them a new home in some
other part of the U. States. You will sound them on this point
when your residence among them has been sufficiently long to enable
you to do it with prudence. Gen' Jackson has been authorized
should he deem it adviseable, to appoint a special commissioner
to accompany you to the Seminole Indians in order to make such
representation and immediate arrangements with them as he may
judge necessary.
The duties which are assigned to you are important and the Pres'
confides in your industry, zeal and ability for their faithful discharge.
Further instructions will hereafter be given you growing out of the
information which may be received.
I have &c,
J. C. C
* The act approved Mar. 30, 1802 (2 STAT. 139–146), still in effect at this
time, was amended by an act approved May 6, 1822 (3 STAT. 682–683).



28 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
[Enclosure]
Appointment of Jean A. Pénières as Subagent for Indian Affairs
[March 31, 1821]
To J. A. PENIERES, Esqr.
You are hereby with the approbation of the President of the United
States, appointed Sub-Agent for Indian Affairs in Florida, and vested
with all necessary powers for the due execution of that office, conform-
ably to instructions from this Department or from the Governor of
Florida. -
Given under my hand and the seal of the War Office,
(seal) this 31* day of March, one thousand eight hundred and
twenty one.
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v. LS 83)
NASHVILLE 2nd April 1821.
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 12* Ult.* together with its enclosures viz
2 Commissions*—
Copy of the Treaty—
D° Law for executing it * (in a newspaper)
Do Col: Forbes' Instructions *—
D° royal order for delivery.
Do Do (translation)
Form of Proclamation.
In pursuance of the instructions of the President as communicated
thro' you, I shall proceed as soon as practicable to Montpelier (via)
New Orleans, there to await the necessary information from Col:
Forbes, and shall immediately upon receiving it, take possession of
Pensacola and proceed to organize the Government agreeably to the
Instructions—I hope to be able to leave this by the 15* Inst: and to
arrive at Montpelier by the 1* May.
I have agreeably to instructions * appointed Brevet Major Genl.
Gaines to receive possession of St. Augustine and by the Southern
Mail have forwarded him the necessary instructions for that pur-
pose.
83 Printed also in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 755.
* Ante, p. 13.
** Ante, pp. 8, 9.
* Ante, p. 5.
*7 Amte, p. 11.
* Ante, p. 13.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 29
There is one subject, which at this early period, I wish thro you,
to call the attention of the President to, & receive your instructions
thereon—It is the situation of that part of the Creek Indians who in
the late war abandoned their own Country and fled to the Floridas
and continued hostilities against the United States, until conquered
in 1818. During that campaign I ordered the conquered Indians
above the Florida line, and directed them to settle down within their
own limits (the Creek Nation) I have lately however understood that
M° Queen and his adherrents have made a settlement at Mickasuckey
and also on the Suwaney river.—Are these Indians to be ordered up
to the Creek Country, there to settle themselves, or are they to be
protected in their new settlement? I have only to remark that the
Country set apart for the Creek Nation is sufficient for the support
of all, & that by removing those within Florida greater security will
be given to our frontier, and the Government would more certainly
be enabled to prevent smuggleing, which no doubt will be attempted
to a considerable extent thro the various inlets in the Country now
inhabited by them. Whatever may be the Presidents Instructions
upon this subject shall be strictly obeyed and likewise in relation to
the negroes who have run away from the States & inhabit this country
and are protected by the Indians.”
With Sentiments of esteem & regard I have the honor to be Sir
Your Most Obt Serv't
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State
[Addressed] The Hon” John Quincy Adams Secº of State Wash-
ington City [Postmarked] Nash. T. Apr. 4 Free
[Endorsed] Jackson And" Major Gen' Nash” 2 Ap' 21 has recº
com" & instructions—Solicits instructions with respect to part of the
Creek Indians. Jackson general Nashville, 2 April 1821 Recd 19 has
recd his Commission & instructions, and asks for further Instructions.
Andrew Jackson— -
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO
ARCHIBALD CLARK
[NA:TD, Letters to and from Collectors: C]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT 7th of April 1821
SIR Your Letter of the 25” of March * has been receiva by this
Days Mail. It is not deemed advisable to interfere with the vessels
which you State are in the River Sº Johns, The intent of the evil
* Answered post, pp. 40, 57.
* Ante, p. 24.



30 T. E. R. R. I TO R. I.A. L. P. A P E R S
Cannot be so great as to furnish an inducement as in the Case of the
Apollo. to exercise any extraordinary power.”
I shall have occasion to address you again in a Short time, as to the
precautions which it may be necessary to use to ascertain the Amt
of Goods, which may be in the Country at the principal Depots of
East Florida. Is there any town, or Resort for merchant vessels
between Sº Marys—& the Cape of Florida—except Fernadina, Sº
Johns. & Sº Augustine & on the Eastern Coast?
I Remain with Respect Your Most Ob" Serv"
WILL" H. CRAWFORD. Sect” of the Treasury
A. CLARK. Esqr Collector of the Customs for the Port of St Marys.
Geo.
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO TRUEMAN CROSS
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 3]
April 9th 1821
MAjoR CROSS Pres”
SIR Since my letter to you of the 22" Ult” ” I have directed Cap
Bender to employ transports at Boston to convey the troops thence
to Amelia only—You will therefore make such arrangments, as you
may think necesary for removing them to S' Augustine, and the
Spanish troops thence to Havanna.
Should you deem it advisable you might visit S*Augustine pevious
to the transfer of Florida for the purpose of ascertaining the number
of spanish troops for which transportation may be required.
When the duty with which you are charged shall be completed you
will return to this city.—
I am Sir &"
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:LS 98]
NASHVILLE 10* April 1821
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your commu-
nication of the 23* ult” ” and have perused with Attention the in-
structions contained therein, The Second Article of the Treaty in
* The Apollo (Apollon) was a French vessel which had been seized on the St.
Mary's River in 1820 for violating the revenue laws of the United States (Memoirs
J. Q. Adams, V, passim; Richardson (comp.), Messages and Papers of the Presidents,
II, 669–671). A report by Capt. Matthew M. Payne relative to this vessel, dated
Aug. 24, 1821, is in NA (SD, Misc. Lets.).
* Ante, p. 22.
* Printed also in A. S. P., op. cit., p. 755.
*Ante, p. 23.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 31
which it is stipulated that the Teritories of East and West Floridas
and the fortifications within the same are ceeded and are to be de-
livered to the United States is so clear and explicit that it had never
occurr'd to my mind that an attempt would be made by the Spanish
Authorities to strip the Fortifications of their means of defence.
Cannon is an indispensable appendage of a Fortification, and the
term Fortification is always understood to include every think ap-
pertaining to a work Constructed for defence, Indeed Such was my
view of That Article of the Treaty, That I should have Considered
the Spanish Government bound by their Cession of the fortifications
with the teritory, to pass over to the United States not only the for-
tifications, but the Ordnance and Munitions of war Contained
therein,
If on my arrival at Pensacola any dificulty should arise on this
Subject—I will avail myself of your very Just Suggestions, And will
endeavour—as forcibly as I can to impress the Governor with a
Sense of the liberal Construction which the United States are disposed
to give to the treaty
In any event you may rest assured that your instructions will be
most promptly attended to,”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Sir Your Obt Servº
ANDREW JACKSON
HoN. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State City of Washington
[Endorsed] Andrew Jackson—R. 26*
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., J 255:ALS)
NASHVILLE 10* Ap' 1821
SIR, Your letter of the 22” of March * with its inclosures has just
reached me, Upon the receipt of instructions to take possession of
Florida, I appointed Gen' Gaines to receive Sº Augustine & its de-
pendencies and Ordered him to proceed forthwith to perform that
duty,” in pursuance to instructions which I directed to be forwarded
to him, but having been informed by your letter above referr" to that
the General has been ordered to the City of Washington, to assist in
the reduction of the Army, And that you apprehend he will not return
* Acknowledged post, p. 754.
* Ante, p. 19.
* Jackson to Gaines, Apr. 2, 1821 (LC, Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk.
M). Gaines wrote Jackson (April 27) from Washington expressing regret that
the duty assigned him there prevented him from acting as commissioner to receive
East Florida (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 59).



32 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
to his Head Quarters in time to proceed on the duties I had assigned
him, I have directed Colonel Robert Butler * to repair thither, and
carry into effect the powers and instructions Confided to Gen' Gaines—
the Col" will leave this by the 18" Ins" and will reach Amelia Island
with as little delay as practicable, the detention of the Gen' therefore
at the City will not procrastinate the time of our taking possession of
the Florida"—I have the fullest Confidence that this duty will be
performed by the Col" with Judgement And prudence—
Should the Col” be Appointed to Command a Reg' of Artillery I
should be hapy if he could be Stationed at Pensacola—
I have this day advised Gen. Gaines" at the City of Washington
of the Appointment of Col" Butler to Supercede him in the duty which
had been assigned him at S*Augustine —
I am Sir, Very Respºly Your Obt Servº
ANDREW JACKSON
HON JNo C CALHOUN Sect of War
[Endorsed) Jackson. And" Maj Gen' Nashville, 10 Ap' 1821 has di-
rected Col' Butler to receive Sº Augustine and its' dependencies—
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO ROBERT
BUTLER
[LC: Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M]
Head Quarters NASHVILLE 12* April 1821.
SIR, Inclosed you will receive a provisional commission to receive
possession of St. Augustine and its dependencies, in the absence of
Bret: Major Gen' E. P. Gaines, who I had on the 2" Inst: commis-
sioned for that purpose,” but a letter from the Secº of War of the 22nd
Ult, advises,” that he has been ordered to the City of Washington,
to aid in the organization of the Army agreeably to the act of Congress
for its reduction.
* Infra. Butler was Adjutant General of the Southern Division under Jackson,
a position in which he had been serving since the War of 1812. A native of Penn-
sylvania and a son of Col. Thomas Butler, friend of Jackson, Robert Butler had
been appointed a captain in the Army in 1812. He saw service in both the War
of 1812 and the Seminole campaign of 1818 under Jackson. His military career
was terminated by his resignation, Nov. 16, 1821, following his declination of an
assignment to the First Infantry in the reduced rank of lieutenant colonel (Butler
to the President, Nov. 16, 1821, LC, Monroe Papers, Vol. 31). Even before the
acceptance of his resignation, he had hopes for the appointment of surveyor
general of Florida (Bassett, ed., Corr. Jackson, III, 165), and he was given that
position, May 24, 1824 (post, p. 942.).
* Letter not found.
* Reply, if any, not seen.
* Not found. See ante, p. 28.
* Ante, p. 19.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 33
You will therefore proceed forthwith to Amelia Island, and there
make the necessary arrangements, for receiving and occupying that
part of the Country ceded to us from Spain, towit, St. Augustine
and its dependencies, attending to the instructions herewith enclosed,
viz. from the Secº of State N° 1.* Copy of the royal order for the
delivery of the Florida's N° 2.* Copy of a letter from the Secy of
of State to Co': Forbes N° 3." Copy of a Communication from the
Secº of War with accompanying Documents N’ 4”—You will find
from the instructions that I am authorized to draw upon the Depart-
ment of State for all necessary expences that may accrue in receiving
possession and organizing the Government of the Florida's-you will
therefore furnish me with the accounts as early as possible that they
may be forwarded to that Department for settlement.
You are authorized to draw upon me for the necessary funds for
the above purpose.
You will perceive from the letter of the 22” ult: enclosed from the
Secº of War that the Garrison of Fort Gadsden is to occupy St.
Marks—I had ordered Gen' Gaines some time since, to have this
Garrison relieved, whether he has done so, or not, I am not advised—
Major Fanning * has remonstrated often, on the hardship of being
continued there; this I have made known to the Department, but
as the Secº requires the Garrison of Fort Gadsden to occupy that
Fortress, you will countermand any order which may have been
given by Gen' Gaines for its being relieved, and notify me of the cir-
cumstances which you may become possessed of in relation to this
business.
You will receive here with Three Hundred and fifty Dollars to
enable you to reach your point of destination—and from Montpelier,
when I forward you the necessary Proclamation to be promulgated
on receiving possession of the Country I will furnish you such addi-
tional sum, as I may deem necessary—in the mean time should neces-
sity require, you can draw upon me as before instructed.
I have full confidence that in performing this duty you will act
with your usual prudence, conforming strictly to your instructions, and
should the Spanish Authority claim the right of taking the Ordinance,
you will remonstrate, as being inconsistent with that liberal construc-
tion which the United States are disposed to give to the Treaty but
if persisted in, you will comply with the Secº of States instructions
* Ante, p. 23.
* Copy in NA(SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Iv); printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., iv, 742,
v, 281.
* Ante, p. 11.
* Ante, p. 19.
* Alexander C. W. Fanning.
201867–56—4



34 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
No 1. (both letters of the Secº of State containing instructions &c.
enclosed”)
On your arrival at Amelia Island you will address a communication
to the Governor of St. Augustine, and forward it to him by a confi-
dential Officer, in which you will inform him of your arrival &
commission &c. &c. requesting him to inform you if he has recº
instructions to deliver over to the United States the Country &
Fortifications ceded. It is probable that from the instructions to Col:
Forbes," the Governor & Captain Gen' of Cuba has forwarded the
order for delivery, direct to St. Augustine, if so, you will be in pos-
session of that part of Florida, as soon as I shall receive Pensacola.
It is important that we should have possession of the Country as early
as possible to prevent smuggling and the introduction of Africans—
to prevent which; you will be vigilent and receive possession as soon
as practicable
I am Sir very respectfully Yº Mº Obt Sº
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
COL: ROBERT BUTLER Adj: Gen' S. D. U. S. Army
[Enclosure]
Appointment of Robert Butler as Commissioner to Receive Possession of
East Florida
[April 12, 1821]
ANDREW JACKSON Governor of Florida.
“To all whom these presents shall come greeting.”
Know Ye, that having been commissioned by the President of the
United States to take possession of and occupy the Territories of
East and West Florida ceded by Spain to the United States by the
Treaty concluded at Washington on the twenty second day of Feb-
ruary one thousand Eight hundred and nineteen, and having been
further authorized to appoint such person or persons as I may deem
proper to take possession of any part of the ceded Territories aforsaid,
and whereas on the Second day of April one thousand Eight Hundred
and Twenty one, I did commission MAJOR GEN' E. P. GAINES to take
possession of St. Augustine and its dependencies, and having been
informed that the Official duties assigned him will prevent his execu-
tion of the said commission; I do hereby Provisionally appoint
COLONEL ROBERT BUTLER Adjutant General of the Southern Division
of the Army a Commissioner to receive and occupy St. Augustine with
its dependencies, and all that part of the ceded Territory including
the adjacent Islands situated to the East of Cape Florida, and for
* Ante, pp. 13, 23.
10 Ante, p. 11.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 35
this purpose to proceed to the Territory aforesaid and there to execute
and perform all such acts and things touching these premises as may
be necessary to fulfil his appointment conformably to the said Treaty
and the instructions he may receive
Given at Nashville this twelvth day of April One Thousand Eight
Hundred & Twenty-one
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
JOSEPH KENT 11 TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
Rose MoUNT, 14th April 1821
HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF THE U. STATES
SIR Supposing by this time you may be about to conclude your
appointments for Florida, before that takes place, permit me to
remind you of the application of Col" W* G. D. Worthington 12 of
Balt" who I consider peculiarly adapted for an appointment in that
Country, possessing as he does very considerable, Legal, Literary and
political knowledge with an acquaintance with the Spanish language
& great firmness of character—But I am writing to you of one with
whom you are not only personally acquainted, but in whose favour
you are in possession of recommendations of a high and unequivocal
character—
It gives me pain to write or speak to you upon the subject of
appointments, well knowing how you are importuned respecting them
in A Representative in Congress from Maryland.
* A native of Maryland and a lawyer by profession, he was elected to the Senate
of that State in the fall of 1814. He had been recommended to the President for a
Federal appointment in the preceding year (Kent to the President, July 26, 1813,
NA, SD, Applications). Worthington was serving as principal clerk in the office
of Joseph Anderson, Comptroller, U. S. Treasury, when that official recommended
him to the President, July 23, Nov. 9, 1816, for an appointment as a consul,
district judge of Indiana Territory, or the collectorship at New Orleans (loc.
cit.). Early in 1817 Worthington was appointed special agent of the State De-
partment to establish and promote commercial relations with Argentina, Chile,
and Peru. Following the termination of that agency, he applied to the Secretary
of State, June 30, 1819, for another appointment (loc. cit.). Recommendations
in his behalf (loc. cit.) are as follows: Sen. Edward Lloyd (Md.) to the President,
Apr. 10, 1820; Sen. William Pinkney (Md.) to id., Apr. 5, 1820; Rep. Kent to id.,
Apr. 4, 1820, enclosing a recommendation, Mar. 22, 1820, signed by the following
members of the delegation in Congress from Maryland: Joseph Kent, Stevenson
Archer, Thomas Culbreth, Samuel Smith, Thomas Bagby, Peter Little, and Henry
R. Warfield. Worthington himself again wrote the Secretary of State, Apr. 16,
1821, soliciting further public service (loc. cit.). He was appointed secretary in
East Florida May 18, 1821 (post, p. 44).



36 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
and nothing but my very great anxiety for M" W* success wou'd have
induced me to trepass upon you at this time—
With great respect I remain y Ob Serº
JOS: KENT
[Addressed] His Excellency The President of the U. States Washing-
ton City [Postmarked] Bladensburg Ap' 14 free
[Endorsed] Dº Kent recommending M W D. G Worthington for an
appointment in Florida April 14* 1821
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.LS is]
NEW ORLANs April 24* 1821
SIR On the evening of the 22* ins* I reached this City on my way
to Montpelier, and will if I can procure a transport, proceed on my
journey on the 26* instant.
Immediately on my arrival M* Frommentin waited upon me, and
produced a commission dated in the year 1819,” authorising him to
receive the Floridas together with the Archives at Pensacola and St
Augustine. He appeares to be impressed with a belief, that although,
that part of his commission to receive the Floridas was superseded,
yet as the executive had been silent on the subject of the Archives to
be rec" at Pensacola &", that he with my approval was entitled to the
safe keeping of them—From the tenor of my instructions, I do not
conceive that I can create any office in the Floridas that does not exist
there at present, and that clerks of any kind except those that are
contemplated under my instruction to translate and transcribe the
archives for the information of the President, cannot be necessary
until the next meeting of Congress—However should the President be
* Copy in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M); printed also in
Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 49–50.
* In anticipation of the ratification by Spain of the treaty of Feb. 22, 1819,
Eligius Fromentin was instructed by the Secretary of State on May 20, 1819, to pro-
ceed to Florida in order to be on hand, in the event ratifications were exchanged,
to receive the archives which were to be transferred pursuant to the treaty.
For references to correspondence relating to this mission, from which the agent
was recalled in Aug. 1819, see David W. Parker, Calendar of Papers in Washing-
ton Archives Relating to the Territories of the United States (to 1873) (Washington,
1911), pp. 67–68. Fromentin was a French refugee who had settled in Pennsyl-
vania (he had been a Catholic priest in France but subsequently left the Church),
taught school in Maryland, emigrated to Upper Louisiana, practiced law in New
Orleans, and served as U. S. Senator from Louisiana, 1813–1819 (Cong. Biog.
Direct., 1950 ed., p. 1184; Terr. Papers, Orleans, IX, index). He was commissioned
a judge in Florida Territory, May 18, 1821. See post, p. 42, n. Cf. Jackson's
characterization of him, post, p. 160.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 37
of opinion that a safe keeper of the Archives should be necessary, and
that M* Frommentin should be appointed to that trust, and express
the same to me with the salary to be annexed, I will immediately
notify Mº Frommentin thereof and request his removal to Pensacola—
But it does not appear to me that there can arise a necessity for any
individual to have a copy of any of the records before the meeting of
next Congress I shall therefore not make any appointment of this
kind, until I hear from the President on the subject
I have here met with Majº Staunton of the Quarter-Masters Depart-
ment, who advises me that he is without Quarter Master funds for
the purpose of carrying into effect the transportation of the civil and
military officers of Spain, from the Florida's as stipulated under the
late treaty with Spain, and informs me that it is understood by the
Quar-Master Gen', that through me the funds necessary to carry into
effect the stipulation for transporting the Spanish Troops are to be
obtained—From the perusal of my instructions, it does not appear
that I am not authorised to draw upon the State Department for
Quartermaster funds, but will take upon me the responsibility so to
do. I thought it most advisable to endeavour to raise here by a draft
upon your Department the sum necessary to meet the expenses of
receiving the country and organising the Government, fearing that a
draft would not be sold at Mobile or Pensacola, for this purpose I
offered for sale a draft, and found I could not obtain United States
paper for it without a discount, I therefore directed Majº Staunton
to apply to the Branch Bank of the United States, to be informed
whether it would advance upon my draft—it refused. I then ad-
dressed a note to the collector Mº Chew,” the enclosed is his answer"—
I also enclose the statement of Majº Staunton,” from all which you
will discover that without a discount, money cannot be obtained here
on drafts upon the Government—no delay however shall occur in the
transportation of the Spanish Troops from the want of funds, as far
as I can command them—nor will I ever consent to sell bills on the
Government at a discount to any, and more particularly to the
Branch Bank of the United States, in which is depositted all the
revenue of the Government rec" at this place. I shall endeavour at
Mobile or Pensacola to raise the necessary funds on drafts—Should
I fail there, I trust upon the receipt of this, the Government will
instruct the Branch Bank to furnish me with the amount that may
be necessary to meet the expenses that may occur in receiving the
Floridas and organising the Government thereof *
is Beverly Chew.
is Present, dated Apr. 26, 1821. There is no explanation for the discrepancy
of these dates.
17 Present, dated Apr. 25, 1821.
* See post, p. 41.



38 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I am Sir with great respect Yº Mo Obt servant.
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HON” JoHN. Q. ADAMS Sec of State U. S.
[Endorsed] Jackson General New Orleans, 24 April 1820 Recd
26th.” Mº fromentin Draft upon Dep" of State—Can't be sold but
at a loss. Andrew Jackson—
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE 20
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: LS21]
BLAKELEY. A. State May 1* 1821.
SIR, I arrived at this place on the morning of the 29th U1° and im-
mediately communicated with Montpelier by express;–which returned
last evening, with information that no advices had been received there
from Col Forbes—
Being informed that associations exist, for the purpose of introducing
a number of Africans into Florida, before the change of Government,
and for this purpose an agent from Baltimore and another from
the East, are now, the one in Pensacola and the other in Cuba or
Bahama Island—To obtain possession of the ceded Country as soon
as possible, and thereby prevent the furtherance of this dreaded evil,
I have this morning despatched Doct" Bronaugh” and Judge Bracken-
ridge,” with communications to the Governor of Pensacola,” copies
of which I send you herewith marked N° 1 and 2,” and also with
1° Evidently May 26 is meant.
20 Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821 (post, p. 137).
21 Copies are in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vi) and in LC (Jackson Papers,
Lets. and Orders, Bk. M); printed in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 756–757, and Bassett
(ed.), op. cit., III, 52–53.
” James C. Bronaugh, an army surgeon attached to Jackson's staff for several
years, who was discharged June 1, 1821, settled in Pensacola, and died there in 1822.
* Henry M. Brackenridge (1786–1871), a native of Pittsburgh, Pa., had prac-
ticed law in St. Louis, New Orleans, and Baltimore, served in the Maryland
legislature, and in 1817 accompanied, as secretary, a mission sent to South America
by the United States to study political conditions there. His familiarity with
Spanish affairs and language and his knowledge of the law won him service under
Jackson as secretary and translator in Florida in 1821. He impressed both
Jackson and the citizens of Pensacola with his qualifications for a judicial appoint-
ment, and was commissioned judge of West Florida, June 5, 1822 (post, p. 451),
and was reappointed Jan. 31, 1823, May 27, 1824, and Jan. 9, 1828, serving until
his removal by President Jackson in 1832 (Dict. Amer. Biog., II, 543–544 art. by
Claude M. Newlin). He was the author of Views of Louisiana (1814), as well as
of other travel books.
24 José Callava.
* Present. Copies of both are also in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI), and
LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M); both printed in A. S. P., For.
Rels., IV, 757, and No. 2 in Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 50–52.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 39
instructions to enquire into the truth of a complaint made to me in
New Orleans and reiterated here, that, the Spanish subjects in Pensa-
cola are in the habit constantly of pulling down the houses of non-
resident Americans, for fuel.
My Aid de Camp Capt. Call,” whom I sent from Nashville over
land to Montpelier, has not reached that place owing as it is believed
to the unusual freshets, prevalent in the upper country—This will
detain me here, untill the arrival of my horses and untill the return of
the Gentlemen whom I have sent to Pensacola—
I have directed Col Brook,” in command at Montpelier to forward
to this place all communications which may be received at Montpelier
for me—
As soon as I hear from the Governor of Pensacola I will communi-
cate to you his reply— -
I have signified to Commodore Patterson * the propriety of sending
a vessel to take a recognizance of the Florida Coast as far as Tampa
Bay—to intercept any American vessel loaded in whole or in part,
with Africans—
From conversing with Majº Staunton of the Quarter Master De-
partment, on the subject of supplies for the Spanish Officers &
* Richard Keith Call (1791–1863), a native of Va., was taken to Ky. by his
mother when still a child. In 1813 he left his studies in Montgomery Co., Tenn.,
to join the expedition against the Creeks and later volunteered for service under
Jackson, with whom, after being commissioned a first lieutenant on July 15, 1814,
he served at Pensacola and at the battle of New Orleans winning a promotion to
Captain. Continuing in the army after the War of 1812, he participated in
Jackson's campaign against the Seminoles in 1818, assisting in the negotiations
for the surrender of Pensacola. After the transfer of Pensacola in 1821, he
functioned for several months as Acting Secretary of West Florida. He formed a
short-lived law partnership with Henry M. Brackenridge at Pensacola in Sept.
1821, and a similar connection with Richard J. Easter in July 1822 (Pensacola
Floridian, Sept. 1, 1821, July 20, 1822). His career in the territory following his
resignation from the Army on May 1, 1822, became closely connected with the
public affairs of the area and will be found documented in the present work.
Sketches of his life are contained in the following articles: Caroline M. Brevard,
“Richard Keith Call” (Fla. Hist. Quar., 1 [July, Oct., 1908), 3–12, 8–20); Sidney
W. Martin, “Richard Keith Call, Florida Territorial Leader” (ibid., xxi (Apr.
1943]); Dict. Amer. Biog., III, 422–423, art. by James A. Robertson. His papers
are in the libraries of the University of Florida and the University of North
Carolina.
27 George M. Brooke.
* Daniel T. Patterson, who actually acted upon this suggestion; see his letter
to the Secretary of the Navy, July 16, 1821 (NA, ND, SN, Captains' Lets., 1821, Bk.
3), concerning the cruise of the U. S. schooners Nonsuch and Lynx. Lt. James
Ramage reported on July 11, 1821, regarding a cruise along the east coast of the
peninsula of Fla. (loc. cit., Bk. 4). Other communications touching the Navy's
activities connected with the suppression of the slave trade can also be found in
these records, as well as in the Master Commandants' Letters.



40 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Soldiers on their voyage to Cuba and the inconvenience of preparing
their bread on board; I have directed him to order Cap" Rodgers * of
the Commissariat Dep" at Orleans to have a sufficient quantity of sea
biscuit, prepared for their supply In this arrangement there will be
a saving of Tonage to the U States and it will have the happy effect
of preventing any complaints from Spain on the score of supplies or
as to the liberality of the Government of the U States in their con-
struction of the Treaty—I hope this measure will meet the appro-
bation of the President”—
With high consideration and respect I have the Honor to be your
most Ob" Humble Ser'
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State.
[Addressed] The Honble John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
City of Washington
[Endorsed] Jackson Major Gen: Andrew Blakely, 1 May 1821
Recd 28th. Correspondence with Governor of West Florida A.
Jackson May 1* 1821. Andrew Jackson
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol. 59: LS)
DEPARTMENT OF WAR, 1st May 1821.
SIR, On the receipt of your letter of the 10° of last month, I sub-
mitted the point in your account, which you presented, for the
decision of the Attorney General,” as the highest law authority; and
I now enclose you, for your information, his decision in the case.
The 2" Auditor informs me that your account of disbursements
under the Choctaw treaty,” will be closed, as soon as the receipt of
the contractor for the $2000. paid to him by the allowance of this
Department, and evidence of the payment, or deposit of the balance
are transmitted to him. The Auditor will write you today giving
you a statement of what the balance is after giving you a credit for
the $2000 with instruction to pay it over to pay master Randall or
Burch, if you have not made other disposition of it.
The President has referred so much of your letter to the State
Department of the 2° April,” as relates to the Indians in Florida, to
this Department. He is of the opinion, that no immediate measure
* John Rogers, military storekeeper at New Orleans.
* Answered post, p. 99.
* The letter referred to (not found) and the decision relate to Jackson's salary
account and allowances as Major General; the decision is in the Attorney General
to Jackson, Apr. 30, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 181).
* Signed Oct. 18, 1820, proclaimed Jan. 8, 1821 (7 STAT. 210–214).
** Ante, p. 28.



FLORIDA. T E R RI TOR Y 41
ought to be taken, as to the Creek Indians in Florida; but that some
step ought to be taken to ascertain their views, numbers &c., in order
to adopt proper measures hereafter in relation both to them and
the Seminoles
It is certainly desireable on many accounts to remove them from
Florida; but it is highly probable, that the people of Georgia would
object strongly to the arrangement of ordering them to the Creek
Country; as it might prolong the time of the extinguishment of the
Indian title within its limits. In fact during the last session, the idea
was suggested, and it was very apparent, that it would not be relished
I hope, however, that some opportunity may present itself, of making
an arrangement which may be satisfactory. As soon as it can be
done, it will be the policy of the government to remove them. Its
view on this point, was communicated to you in the copy of the
instructions to the Sub-agent for the Indians in Florida, and the
letter, under cover of which, it was transmitted to you.”
I fear from the great infirmity of Gen' Porter, who was charged
with the arranging and ordering the detachment of the light artillery
from Boston to Amelia Island, to garrison St Augustine, that some
delay may take place in their arrival. He mistook a part of the
orders, which made it necessary to correct his error, and it is probable
that the detachment did not sail till the 28* of last month.
I trust, however, that not much inconvenience will result.
I have the honor to be Your Obed Ser”
J. C. CALHOUN
MA' GEN" ANDREW JACKSON, Montpelier, Alabama.
[Endorsed] the Sect” of War, 1* May 1821, enclosing the Attorney
Gen" opinion regarding Gen' Jacksons account—Rec". 25* May 1821
ans” 26* *—and noted in the answer that the letter covering the
instructions to the Sub agent in Florida, had not come to hand—
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:LS)
BLAKELY, May 7”. 1821
SIR, Finding it impossible to sell bills on Government, any where
South of Baltimore, I have placed in the hands of Co! Gadsden "bills
to the amount of three thousand dollars, to be made payable, in
Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York or Boston—which he takes to
New Orleans, to endeavour to raise money upon, at par. Should he
* Ante, p. 25. * Post, p. 58.
*James Gadsden (1788–1858), a native of South Carolina, graduated from Yale
College in 1806, and after a short business career at Charleston was commissioned
a Second Lieutenant of Engineers in the U. S. Army on Dec. 2, 1812. Following



42 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
make sale of them, they will be accompanied with a letter of advice,
and I hope will be honored and paid at sight.”
I am Sir, with sentiments of great respect, your most Obt. servant.
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Andrew Jackson—
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM P. DUVAL AS JUDGE
OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]
[May 18, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Wisdom, Uprightness and Learning of WILLIAM P. DUVAL of Ken-
tucky, I do appoint him Judge of the United States for East Florida,”
with the exception of that part which lies Westward of the Cape, to
reside at S*Augustine; * and do authorize and empower him to execute
the War of 1812, in which he served at the battle of New Orleans, Gadsden
examined and reported upon the fortifications of New Orleans and Mobile and
their dependencies. He prepared a similar report in 1818 upon the defenses of
Spanish West Florida. He was promoted to a captaincy in 1818 and on Oct. 1,
1820 became a colonel and Inspector General of the Southern Division under
Jackson. A friend of Secretary of War Calhoun, and strongly recommended by
Jackson, he was appointed, Aug. 13, 1821, Adjutant General of the Army by the
President (Bassett, ed., Corr. Jackson, III, 47, 59). He served in that position only
until Mar. 22, 1822, however, for the Senate refused to confirm the appointment
on the ground that officers senior to him in rank had been passed over in violation
of the act for the reduction of the Army approved Mar. 2, 1821 (Senate, Erec.
Journal, III, 266,280, 282, 292, 298; A. S. P., Mil. Affairs, II, 397). This action
terminated his Army career, and he moved from Washington to Charleston. His
appointment as a commissioner to negotiate a treaty with the Seminoles in Florida
(post, p. 659) in 1823, through the influence of the Sec. of War (Bassett, ed., op. cit.,
III, 194), led to his settlement in the Territory where he was to take an important
part in public affairs and in the development of the area. The article by J. Fred
Rippy in the Dict. Amer. Biog., vii, 83–84, indicates, apparently incorrectly, that
Gadsden went to Florida in 1822. See also indexes to present volumes on Florida
Territory.
* Answered post, p. 42.
* DuVal was notified of his appointment (a recess one) June 27, 1821 (NA,SD,
Dom. Lets., XIX); he accepted on July 28 (NA,SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v).
* Another commission of May 18, in the same form, for the judgeship in West
Florida with residence at Pensacola was issued to Eligius Fromentin (NA,SD,
Temp. Comms., Pres.); it was sent to Fromentin, June 27, 1821 (NA,SD, Dom.
Lets., XIX, printed, A.S.P., Misc., II, 833). His acceptance, dated at Pensacola,
Aug. 12, 1821, is printed ibid., p. 833. He had arrived at that town on July 27,
according to a report from Jackson to the Secretary of War, July 29, 1821 (LC,
Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. O). See post, p. 173. See also ante, p. 36.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 43
and fulfil the duties of that office according to the Constitution and
Laws of the United States; and to Have and to Hold the said office
with all the powers, privileges and Emoluments to the same of right
appertaining unto him the said WILLIAM P. DUVAL, during his good
behaviour, and until the end of the next Session of the Senate of the
United States, and no longer.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Eighteenth day of May A.D. 1821; and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the Forty Fifth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF GEORGE WALTON 41 AS SECRETARY OF
WEST FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]
[May 18, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the In-
tegrity, Diligence and Abilities of GEORGE WALTON of Georgia, I do
appoint him Secretary in and for West Florida, and for that part of
* For recommendation of DuVal, see ante, p. 3, n. Numerous other applications
and recommendations for appointments to judgeships in Florida were received
by the Department of State in 1821 (NA,SD, Applications). William M. Blair,
of Ky., was endorsed by John Rowan, John Pope, Theodore F. Talbot, Robert
Wickliffe, and B. Mills, all of Ky. George Caines, of N. Y., was supported by
Jonathan Thompson, of the same place. Col. Stockley D. Hayes (of Tenn.),
Judge Advocate, Southern Division U.S. Army, was endorsed by John Catron,
Andrew Jackson, Thomas Claiborne, John McNairy, J. Whiteside, Robert
Weakley, John Overton, Dr. James C. Bronaugh, Col. Robert Butler, and Samuel
Hogg, all of Tenn. Adolphus F. Hubbard, of Shawneetown, Ill., was recom-
mended by Sens. R. M. Johnson and Isham Talbot, Reps. Francis Johnson, Alney
McLean, Benjamin Hardin, Thomas Metcalfe, and former Rep. Henry Clay, all of
Ky., Sens. Jesse B. Thomas and Ninian Edwards, and Rep. Daniel P. Cook, of Ill.,
David Barton and Thomas H. Benton, of Mo. Terr., Del. James W. Bates, of Ark.
Terr., Del. John Scott, of Mo. Terr., Del. Solomon Sibley, of Mich. Terr., Sen.
Waller Taylor, of Ind., Sen. Benjamin Ruggles, and Reps. John Sloan, John
Campbell, Thomas H. Ross, and Philemon Beecher, all of Ohio, Rep. Solomon
Van Rensselaer, of N. Y., Reps. Samuel Lathrop, Joshua Cushman, and Samuel
C. Allen, of Mass., Rep. Jonathan C. Moseley, of Conn., and Rep. Thomas W.
Cobb, of Ga. D. T. Blake, of N. Y. City, also solicited the appointment in letters
to the Secretaries of the Navy and the Treasury. Persons interested in Hubbard,
as well as in the other candidates, will find the supporting letters mentioned filed
with the name of the candidate, or the person recommended.
* See ante, p. 4.



44 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
East Florida, which lies Westward of the Cape; and do authorize and
empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office; and to Have
and to Hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and Emolu-
ments to the same of right appertaining unto him the said GEORGE
WALTON, during the pleasure of the President of the United States for
the time being, and until the end of the next Session of the Senate of
the United States, and no longer.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be
hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of
Washington the Eighteenth day of May, A. D. 1821; and of the
Independence of the United States of America, the Forty Fifth.*
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON AS
SECRETARY OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]
[May 18, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the In-
tegrity, Diligence and abilities of WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON of
* Walton was notified of his appointment on June 27, 1821 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets., XIX), and communicated his acceptance on July 12 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, v).
* Applications and recommendations for appointment as secretary came from
various quarters as found in NA(SD, Applications). Alexander Anderson, of
Dandridge, Tenn., applied to the Secretary of State, Feb. 25, 1821. William W.
Blair, of Lexington, Ky., was recommended by former Rep. John Rowan (Ky.)
to the President, Mar. 8, by former Sen. John Pope to the Secretary of State and to
the President, Mar. 9, by Theodore F. Talbot, of Lexington, Ky., to the President,
Mar. 13, by B. Mills, of Paris, Ky., to the Secretary of State, Mar. 23, and by J.
Cabell Breckenridge, of Lexington, Ky., to the President, Mar. 27. On behalf
of Richard K. Call, then aide-de-camp to Jackson, Sen. John H. Eaton (Tenn.)
wrote to the President, Mar. 10. James D. Doty, a young lawyer of Detroit,
Mich., subsequently Governor of Wisconsin and Utah Territories, was recom-
mended by Gov. Lewis Cass of Michigan Territory and by Del. Solomon Sibley
from that Territory. Thomas P. Moore, of Harrodsburg, Ky., a member of the
Kentucky Legislature, wrote to the President, Mar. 31, enclosing a recommenda-
tion from Sen. Richard M. Johnson (Ky.). Other applications were received by
Jackson (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 59). Alexander Anderson applied to him,
Mar. 27, 1821. The Secretary of the Navy, Smith Thompson, wrote that his son,
Gilbert L. Thompson, planned to remove to Florida and was interested in the
secretaryship or other employment.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 45
Maryland, I do appoint him Secretary in and for East Florida with
the exception of that part which lies Westward of the Cape to reside
at Sº Augustine; and do authorize and empower him to execute and
fulfil the duties of that office according to such Instructions as may be
given to him from time to time by the Governor of East and West
Florida; and to Have and to Hold the said office, with all the powers,
privileges and Emoluments to the same of right appertaining unto
him the said WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON, during the pleasure of
the President of the United States for the time being, and until the
end of the next Session of the Senate of the United States, and no
longer.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Eighteenth day of May A.D. 1821; and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the Forty Fifth.*
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JoHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF JAMES G. FORBES AS MARSHAL
[NA: SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]
[May 18, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity Diligence and Abilities of JAMES G. FORBEs of New York,
I do appoint him Marshal of the United States for East and West
Florida, with authority to appoint a Deputy either for Sº Augustine
or Pensacola, while he shall, himself, reside at the other of those places;
and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties
of that office according to law; and to Have and to Hold the said
office with all the powers, privileges and emoluments to the same of
right appertaining unto him the said JAMES G. FORBES, during the
pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and
* Worthington learned of his appointment from the Washington National In-
telligencer of May 18, 1821, and communicated his acceptance on the 19th (NA,
SD, Misc. Lets.). The commission was transmitted to him by the Secretary of
State on June 27 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX), in a letter which concluded: “As
there is reason to believe that the Actual possession of East Florida will by this
time have been delivered over, by the Spanish authorities to the United States,
your presence at St Augustine will be necessary towards the organization, of the
Temporary Government; and I have to request you accordingly to repair thither
with all convenient dispatch.” See additional commission, post, p. 104.



46 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
until the end of the next Session of the Senate of the United States,
and no longer.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington,
the Eighteenth day of May A.D. 1821; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Fifth.”
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 253:ALS)
FERNANDINA, Amelia Isleand May 18" 1821.
SIR, I embrace the first opportunity by the mail which leaves here
tomorrow morning, of communicating such information relative to
the detachment under my command, and our prospects of proceeding
to our post of destination, as may be interesting and proper for you
to be acquainted with *—
At Charleston, we took on board Dº M*Crosky,” who is to be
stationed at this post—We arrived in the harbor here, on the 15*,
The troops in good order and perfect health—Finding no ether
instructions here, other, than to remain until further orders—that
* This commission was transmitted to Forbes on June 27, 1821 (NA, SD,
Dom. Lets., XIX), and accepted by him at St. Augustine, Sept. 4 (NA, SD, Fla.
Terr. Papers, VII). See post, p. 213.
* A number of other persons were interested in obtaining the appointment as
marshal as found in NA (SD, Applications). Peter Boisclair, of Augusta, Ga.,
was named by Sen. John Elliott (Ga.). Dr. William E. Butler, of Tennessee,
was recommended by his brother, Col. Robert Butler, to the President, Feb. 25,
1821, by John McNairy, of Nashville, to id., Feb. 28, by John Overton, of Nash-
ville, to id., Feb. 27, and by Sen. John H. Eaton (Tenn.), who wrote the Secretary
of State, Mar. 14, enclosing a testimonial bearing a number of signatures. George
W. Martin, of Nashville, Tenn., was recommended by John Coffee, of Huntsville,
Ala., to the President, Feb. 12, 1821. Anthony Rodericks, of Charleston, S. C.,
applied to the Secretary of State, Feb. 28, and was recommended to the Secretary
of War by Robert Howard, Mar. 2, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., H 109).
William C. Watson, then sheriff of Baldwin County, Ga., was recommended by
John Clark, of Milledgeville, Ga., to the Secretary of State, Mar. 26. A recom-
mendation in favor of Maj. George W. Martin was also forwarded by Andrew
Jackson to the President, Jan. 12, 1821 (Bassett, ed., op. cit. III, 36).
47 Jackson was informed by the Adjutant General, May 8, 1821, that three
companies of artillery had sailed from Boston on May 1, one to be landed at
Charleston and the other two to proceed to Fernandina (NA, WD, AGO Lets.
Sent, Bk. 6).
48 Charles N. McCoskry.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 47
Major Cross was at S*Augustine—but that Lieut. & Q Master Baird,”
had received instructions from the Q Mas' Gen' to afford Major
Cross every facility required to forward the transport of the detach"
to Sº Augustine, and from Major Cross a request to detain the trans-
port ship Meteor until his return, or arrival at this place—I thought
proper to direct Lieut Baird to proceed to S*Augustine to confer with
the Major and to detain the Wessel until his return, and to remain on
board with the detachment—By the contract, we are allowed four
days without demurage, after that, the demurage is $50 a day, the
Cap" is owner, and is willing to proceed to S' Augustine, then to the
Havannah, if required—Dº Weightman * came in last evening from
Pablo,” and states from information, that three days ago, the Govt
of Sº Augustin * rec" despatches via Pensacola, supposed to relate to
the delivery of the province, L' Baird will return on the 20th & prob-
ably Major Cross with him, the mail arrives from Washington tomor-
row, so that in three days we shall be in possession of the latest
information from both places and shall have at hand the means of
occupying Sº Augustin immediately, and of sending off the Spanish
garrison, if such are the instructions *—
Very respectfully, I am, Sir, Your ob' Ser"
J R. BELL Cap" L* Arty
HON” J. C. CALHOUN Secy of War
[Endorsed] Bell, J. R. Capt" Lº Art” Fernandina 18 Ap' 1821—
relative to the progress of the detachment under his command,
&c. &c.—
THE PRESIDENT TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
[May 20, 1821]
I have signed the commissions intended for the officers in Florida,
& now return them. I wish Mº Adams however to consider whether
it will not be adviseable to amend the commissions for the judges,
so far as to make them correspond se far as #e Haake them eerrespeñd
with their respective jurisdictions in some such form, “I do appoint
him judge of the U States for West Florida, & for that part of East
Florida which lies westward of the Cape, to reside at Pensacola &c.”
It may be done without preparing a new commission, as I presume.
** Thomas J. Baird.
* Richard Weightman.
* Pablo was a small settlement on the St. Johns River at the mouth of Pablo
Creek, a southern affluent not far from the entrance to the river.
* José Coppinger.
* See post, p. 48.



48 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
If such alteration is deemd material, perhaps it may be proper to
extend it to these the commissions of the Attornies & Marshall,
giving to the latter, in his commission, a power to appoint a deputy,
or deputies.
I am inclined to think that I had better appoint an Attorney for
East Florida, it not being usual for the district attornies to appoint
deputies, as it is for Marshalls. Mr Bird of Georgia has been well
recommended and is willing to go there.”
J M.
May 20. 1821
The modification proposed will correspond with the letter to Gen"
Jackson.*
[Addressed] Mr Adams
[Endorsed] Presidents, Letters 1821. May 20. Monroe J. Com-
missions of Officers in Florida.
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 276:ALS)
FERNANDINA Amelia Island May 21* 1821.
SIR, On my arrival at this place, I found the Detachment under the
Command of Cap" J R Bell of the Light Artillery and on yesterday
witnessed their inspection—Their health & condition as well as the
state of their arms; were highly praiseworthy and speaks much in
favour of their comm” officer—
Maj. Cross returned from Augustine on the 18" and it appears the
Governor was then without advices autherizing the delivery of the
Province—
Believing that the Service will be benefitted, and the wishes of the
Executive met, by a speedy possession of the Ceded Country, I have
concluded to proceed directly to Augustine, and will therefore sail in
Lieu" Paynes * vessell today & I feel persuaded that the arrangements
can be entered into immediately, unless there should be an unwilling-
ness on the part of the Spanish authorities; & Such are the arrange-
ments on the part of the U, States, that I trust no obstacle can be
presented on our part—
I would beg leave to Suggest, that the Strength of Augustine might
be augmented by the removal of Cap' Paynes " company from this
place, as after the delivery of Florida measures can be adopted for the
* Bird's commission is post, p. 49.
* Post, p. 50.
* Thomas Paine, commanding Gun Vessel No. 168.
* Matthew M. Payne.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 49
Goverment of the place without the presence of a Military force
which seems to me entirely unnecessary from its location—As belong-
ing to the U, States the revenue will be protected by the naval &
cannot be by the land forces—These Suggestions are made to induce
your attention & unless there should be some important reasons for
the military occupancy of it, I should be pleased to receive instruc-
tions to have the Troops & Stores removed—
The escort destined for the Spanish Troops from E, Florida had
not reached Augustine when Maj. Cross left there—but I am of the
opinion, that it passed thither on the 19* as several guns were dis-
tinctly heard off this place, and I infer they were intended as signals—
The provisions to subsist the Spanish troops have not yet reached
us, but advices, give room to hope, that we shall have them very
shortly—
Should any thing interesting occur after my arrival at Augustine,
I shall do myself the honor to communicate again.
I request permission to give a name to the Fortress of Augustine *
on taking possession of it; will you have the goodness to grant me this
privilege *—
I have the honor to be, Very respectfully Yº M.” Ob. St
ROBERT BUTLER Adj. Gen' & Comm'
THE HON” J. C. CALHOUN. Secy of War
[Endorsed] Butler Robº Adj" Gen' Comº, Fernandina, Amelia Island,
21 May, 1821—relative to Capt." J. R. Bells detachm'—to the delivery
of Pensacola—the removal of Capt" Paynes' Comp” from Fernandina
to Augustine—the giving a name to the Fortress of Augustine
COMMISSION OF JOHN G. BIRD AS UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]
[May 22, 1821]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity, Ability and Learning of JOHN G. BIRD of Georgia, I do
appoint him Attorney of the United States for East Florida, with the
exception of that part which lies Westward of the Cape, to reside at
* Castillo de San Marcos, erected in the quarter century following 1672
(Albert C. Manucy, The Building of Castillo San Marcos [Washington, 1942],
pp. 9, 26; Verne E. Chatelain, The Defenses of Spanish Florida, 1565–1763 [Wash-
ington, 1941], pp. 59–65).
* Answered post, p. 63.
301867–57–5



50 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
S* Augustine,” and do authorize and empower him to execute and
fulfil the duties of that office according to law; and to Have and to
Hold the same, together with all the powers, privileges and emolu-
ments thereto of right appertaining unto him the said JOHN G. BIRD,
during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time
being, and until the end of the next Session of the Senate of the
United States, and no longer.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to
L. S. be made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be
hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of
Washington the twenty second day of May A.D. 1821; and of the
Independence of the United States of America, the Forty Fifth."
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC:Jackson Papers, Vol. 59:LS ºl
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 22° May 1821
MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON, Governor of East and West
Florida
SIR, I have the honour by direction of the President of the United
States, of informing you, that he has established, within the Ter-
ritories of East and West Florida, three Districts for the collection of
* This commission was sent to Bird in a letter of June 27, 1821 (post, p. 100),
which by error directed him to go to Pensacola instead of St. Augustine. His
acceptance was written at Milledgeville, Ga., July 9, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, V). From St. Augustine he wrote on Sept. 3, 1821, reporting that he had
gone to Pensacola, although believing he was sent there by mistake, and that
after remaining there for ten days had sailed for St. Augustine, which he reached
on Aug. 29 (NA, SD, loc. cit., VII).
* The following persons applied for the post of U. S. Attorney in Fla., applica-
tions and recommendations being filed under each name in NA (SD, Applications):
Andrew Bay of Charleston, S. C.; William W. Blair, dist. atty. at Lexington
Ky.; John D. DeLacy of Raleigh, N. C.; William Ellison of S. C.; James McKibben
of S. C.; George Murray of Winchester, Va.; J. W. Patterson of New York City;
Constantine Perkins of Ala.; James B. Risque of Lynchburg, Va.; J. Robertson
of Richmond, Va.; Edmund Sale of Lynchburg, Va.; Gilbert L. Thompson,
son-in-law of Vice Pres. Tompkins; and Thomas F. Wells and John L. Wilson
of Charleston, S. C.
Letters of solicitation for this office also came to Jackson (LC, Jackson Papers)
in behalf of the following men: Joseph Hutchinson of Augusta, Ga.; George F. A.
Dawson of Philadelphia; Jacob Knapp of St. Francisville, La.; Nathan Reid of
Poplar Grove; Gilbert L. Thompson; and Hugh Wallace Wormely of Woodville,
Miss.
* Copy in NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XIX), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., iv, 753.



F L OR I D A T F R. R. I TOR Y 51
the Revenue, namely, at Pensacola, St. Marks and Saint Augustine.”
He has at the same time thought proper to appoint two territorial
Secretaries, and two Judges, one of each to reside at Pensacola, and
the other at St. Augustine; the revenue district of St. Marks, to be
included within the judicial District of Pensacola. He has thought the
appointment of one Marshal sufficient for the whole territory; author-
izing him to appoint a deputy either for St. Augustine or Pensacola,
while he shall reside himself at the other of those places. I subjoin
hereto the list" of the several persons appointed to these Offices.”
I am, with great respect, Sir, your very humble and obed" Serv"
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
Eligius Fromentin, of Louisiana to be Judge of the United States for
West Florida and for that part of East Florida which lies Westward
of the Cape, to Reside at Pensacola.”
Alexander Anderson of Tennessee, to be Attorney of the United
States for West Florida and for that part of East Florida which
lies Westward of the Cape to reside at Pensacola”
W* P. DuVal of Kentucky to be Judge of the United States for East
Florida with the exception of that part which lies westward of the
Cape to reside at Sº Augustine.”
John G. Bird of Georgia to be Attorney of the United States for East
Florida with the exception of that part which lies Westward of the
Cape to reside at S*Augustine.”
James Grant Forbes of New York to be Marshal of the United States
in and for East and West Florida, with authority to appoint a
deputy either for Sº Augustine or Pensacola, while he shall himself
reside at the other of those places."
George Walton of Georgia to be Secretary in and for West Florida,
and for that part of East Florida which lies Westward of the Cape”
W* G. D. Worthington of Maryland to be Secretary in and for East
Florida with the exception of that part which lies Westward of the
cape to reside at St Augustine.”
* See the act approved May 7, 1822 (3 STAT. 684–685).
* This list was printed contemporaneously in the Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 18,
1821. It is here supplied from the office copy in NA (SD, loc. cit.). The last
six names only are present with the above letter.
* Acknowledged June 13, 1821, printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 763, See also
post, p. 70.
* See ante, p. 42, n.
*7 Declined.
* See ante, p. 42.
* See supra.
* See ante, p. 45.
* See ante, p. 43.
* See ante, p. 44.



52 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Mark Hardin of North Carolina Collector of the Customs at S*
TMarks 7°
John Rodman of New York Collector of the Customs, and
Richard S. Hackley of Virginia Surveyor and inspector of the Revenue
at S*Augustine
Alexander Scott of the District of Columbia Collector of the Customs”
W* Steuben Smith of the District of Columbia Naval Officer and
Charles Jenkins " of South Carolina Surveyor and Inspector of the
Revenue at Pensacola.”
* No letters of notifications, acceptances, or other communications to or from
Messrs. Hardin, Rodman, Hackley, Scott, Smith, and Jenkins relative to their
appointments have been found in the State Department files for 1821, but all of
them are entered in the department's register entitled: A Register of Officers and
Agents, Civil, Military, and Naval, in the Service of the United States. . . . (Wash-
ington, 1822), pp. 47–48. References to some of them may be found in the index.
Besides the persons mentioned above, the Register gives the following: George
Gibbs, inspector of the customs at St. Augustine; Charles Seton, temporary
inspector of the customs at Amelia Island; and Joseph Wales, temporary inspector
of the customs at Tomo. [Tomoka?] Mosquito.
7. Alexander Scott, of Georgetown, D. C., a former U. S. diplomatic agent in
Venezuela, 1812–1813, applied Apr. 6, 1821, for an appointment in Florida, and
Apr. 18 and Apr. 20, 1821, for a judgeship or an appointment as translator (NA,
SD, Applications).
75 Jenkins wrote Jackson from Danielsville, Madison Co., Ga., July 20, 1821,
that he had learned unofficially of his appointment but had received no com-
mission (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 60).
* The post of collector at Pensacola was solicited by numerous persons: William
Aylett, of Ala., Walter Case, a former Representative in Congress from N. Y.,
Maj. Reuben Chamberlain, of Ala., Edward Clark, of Pa., Robert P. Currin, of
Tenn., Augustus H. Wilson, of Ga., George W. Martin, of Tenn., Edward B.
Randolph, of Va., Edmund Sale, of Va., John B. Sarton, of N. J., and John L.
Wilson, of S. C. Each of the foregoing candidates was recommended by one or
more persons of prominence in their respective states. Letters of recommenda-
tion are filed with the name of each candidate in NA (SD, Applications).
For the St. Augustine post, Thomas H. Penn, of S. C., Alexander Sevier, of
Tenn., and George W. Stamper, of Va., were recommended (loc. cit.).
Jackson expressed keen disappointment respecting the list of appointees sent
him. “Had I anticipated this I should have adhered to my first determination
not to have accepted the Government, but I will close my official duties with the
next congress as I am determined, never to be associated with such men as some
of those who are appointed.” Jackson to Bronaugh, June 9, 1821 (Bassett, ed.,
Corr. Jackson, III, 65).



FL OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 53
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO
ALEXANDER. C. W. FANNING 77
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI:C)
Division of the South
Head Quarters MONTPELIER 22° May 1821.
SIR/The abandonment of Fort Gadsden having been directed by the
War Department, and your Command appointed to form the Garrison
of St Marks;” transportation has been ordered to your Post to receive
the Ordnance, Stores, Baggage and Invalides of Your command,
which you will order to sail direct to St Marks, and with your efficient
Troops march across the Country to that place, where you will re-
lieve, and ship the Spanish Garrison to Pensacola, and occupy the
Post of St Marks with your command.
You will receipt to the Spanish Officer or Commissioner appointed
to deliver the same, for all Public Stores, and buildings attatched to
the Fortress of St Marks. The Treaty is silent relative to the dispo-
sition of the Ordnance and Ordnance Stores which may be found in
the Fortifications of the Ceded Territory; but according to the liberal
construction given to the Treaty by the President, it is believed we
have a right to retain them as appendages to the Fortifications—
Should the Spanish Officers attempt to remove them, you will remon-
strate and insist on their being left; should they alledge that their
orders are express for the removal of the Cannon, you will leave it to
them to provide transportation for its removal, and report the facts
to me forthwith, as the United States are only bound to furnish trans-
portation for the Troops and their Baggage.”—
I am Sir-very Respectfully Your Obdt Servt.
(signed) ANDREW JACKSON
MAJOR C. F. W. FANNING Corps of Artillery.
THE PRESIDENT TO COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR
JACKSON
[LC:Jackson Papers, 2d. Ser., Bk. 3:ALS"]
WASHINGTON May 23° 1821.
DEAR SIR. This letter, with such further communications from the
Secretaries of State & War, as the arrangments in Florida may re-
77 Enclosed in a letter of July 30, 1821, from Jackson to the Secretary of State
(post, p. 137).
* Jackson's instructions to Gadsden, May 21, 1821, for the occupation of St.
Marks are printed in Caroline M. Brevard, A History of Florida from the Treaty
of 1763 to Our Own Times (Deland, Fla., 1924, 2 vols.), 1, 259–260.
* Reply, if any, not found.
* Printed also in Stanislaus M. Hamilton, (ed), The Writings of James Monroe
(New York, London, 1898–1903, 7 vols.), VI, 180–185.



54 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
quire, will be forwarded to Milledgeville by mail, and thence by a spe-
cial messenger to you at Pensacola, or elsewhere, to whatever place
you may be at.
The arrangments under the treaty being committed to me, by a
concise law,” expressd in general terms, I have bestowed on the sub-
ject, all the consideration which its high importance requird, & used
my best exertions, to give effect to every object contemplated by it,
in a manner to satisfy the just claims of my country. Several duties
distinct in their nature, were injoind on me by the Law. The terri-
tory ceded, was to be taken possession of, & the Spanish officers &
soldiers were to be transferred to Cuba: a temporary gov" was to be
organizd over the Floridas, for the protection of the inhabitants, in
the free enjoyment, of their liberty, property, and religion, for which
purposes, the military, civil & judicial powers heretofore exercised
by the authorities of Spain, should be vested in proper officers of the
U States, & exercised in such manner as should be designated. The
laws of the U States relating to revenue, & the slave trade, were de-
clard to be in force in the said territories, & it was injoind on me to
establish such districts, for the collection of the revenue, & to appoint
such officers, whose commissions should expire at the end of the next
Session of Congress, to enforce the said laws, as might be deemed
expedient. The establishment of the boundary, between the U States
& Spain, westward, of the Mississippi, was another object, & the insti-
tution of a board of commissioners, to consist of three persons, for
the settlement of the claims of such of our citizens, as had been
plunderd at sea, & elsewhere, was a third. As incident to the last,
was the distribution of 5 millions of do", should the claims amount to
that sum, among such of our citizens as should be entitled thereto,
on fair examination, & on just principles; and should the claims exceed
that sum, by a proportionate reduction of cash, so as to render to
every one justice, giving him his due, and no more, & in so doing,
sustain the character of the government & nation, for integrity, and
impartiality. -
Although those duties were distinct, and to be perform'd at places
very distant from each other, yet in providing for their execution, it
was necessary for me to take a combined view of the whole, and in the
appointment of officers, especially, to look to the nation; distributing
them among the states, so far as it might be practicable, without
neglecting other objects equally important.
In executing that portion of the trust relating to the Floridas, I
have gratified in a high degree my feelings, in committing the chief
power to you, who have render'd such important services, & have such
just claims to the gratitude of your country. It must be agreeable to
* Ante, p. 5.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 55
you, from many considerations which will occur, to take possession
of the Floridas, & cause the Spanish authorities & troops to be remov’d
to Cuba. It must be equally so, to establish the government of the
U States, & to administer it, in their behalf, in those territories. I
have every reason to believe that the nation generally, have beheld
with profound interest and satisfaction, your appointment,” consid-
ering it a just tribute of respect, to your extraordinary services &
merit, & having the fullest confidence that its duties will be discharged,
with the utmost ability & integrity.
As the territory had been divided into two provinces, under Spain, &
still retained that form, notwithstanding all that part of W. Florida,
west of the Perdido, had been taken from it,” and more especially, as
Pensacola & Sº Augustine were separated at such a distance, and by a
wilderness, it was thought adviseable, for the present, to adopt the
arrangement, in some of its parts, to that circumstance. In regard to
your office, both provinces will form but one territory. Your powers
will be the same over the whole; but as your residence will be fixd at
one only, and as I presume at Pensacola, I have thought it proper to
appoint two Secretaries, one for Pensacola, & the other for S'Augustine,
both equally under your controul. I have divided the territory, with
a view to revenue, into three districts, that portion which lies between
the Sº Marys & Cape Florida into one, Sº Augustine being its port of
entry & delivery; that, between the Cape & the Apalachicola, into
another, S' Marks being its port; and that lying between the Apalach-
icola & the Perdido into a third, Pensacola, being its port. I have
established two judicial districts, one Judge in each, Pensacola to be
the residence of one, & Sº Augustine of the other, I have appointed
Mº Fromentin, judge at the former, & Mr Duvall, at the latter.”
Both those gentlemen I presume you are acquainted with, the one
having servd in the Senate from Louisiana, & the other in the house of
Rep" from Kentucky. Mº Walton of Georgia is secretary, at Pensa-
cola “ the descendant & Representative of the member of Congress
of that name, who voted for & signd the declaration of Independance;
Mº Worthington of Maryland is Secretary at S*Augustine,” a person
* Ante, p. 9.
* Under the treaty of 1803 with France the United States claimed that part of
West Florida west of the Perdido River, and by seizures effected in 1810 and 1812
this region was annexed to the United States. By proclamation of the President,
Oct. 27, 1810, the Baton Rouge section of West Florida was attached to the United
States, and came under the jurisdiction of the Governor of Orleans Territory. By
an act approved May 14, 1812 (2 STAT. 734), land east of the Pearl River and west
of the Perdido, and south of the 31th parallel, was added to Mississippi Territory.
* Ante, p. 42.
* Ante. p. 43.
* Ante, p. 44.



56 T E R R I TO R. I. A. L. P. A P E R S
who acted as political agent of the U States, some years, at Buenos
Ayres & Chile.
Mr Alex" Scott of Maryland is appointed Collector of the Customs,”
Mr Steuben Smith of N York Naval officer, Mr Hackley, of Virg"
Surveyor, & M Baker * of this place Inspector, at Pensacola. The
first mentiond is is a man of considerable literary acquirments, & strict
integrity, well connected in this State. The second is the son of Col.
W" Smith, who was aid de camp, to Gen" Washington, in the revolu-
tionary war, & afterwards Secry of legation at London, where the he
married the daughter of Mº Adams, former President. He is the
nephew of the present Secry of State, & his wife is the sister of M**
Adams. Of M* Hackley you may have heard, in Spain. His wife is
the sister of Gov' Randolph of Virg" & Mº Madison & others our
friend, have strongly recommended him to me. As these persons are
I believe literally poor, as is indeed, M. Baker, who was formerly
consul in Spain & Italy, & in whose favor Mr Jefferson takes an
interest, I wish you to place them, if possible, in some of the public
buildings, of which I presume there are some not necessary for your
own accomodation. It is, I believe, customary, for the revenue
officers to be thus provided, wherever it is practicable, and in no
instances, can such provision be more important or indispensible to
the parties than the present. Mº Rodman of New York is appointed
Collector at St Augustine, & Mº Mark Hardin of Nº Carolina at S*
Marks. Young Anderson of Tennessee is appointed d. attorney.
To the Board of Commiss” Judge White of Tennessee, Gov"
King, of Maine, and Mº Tazewell of Virg" are appointed. As the
claimants reside, in the great towns, along the coast, it was thought
# best to select the commiss" from other quarters, in the belief that as
they would be not only disinterested, but unprejudiced, being equally
unacquainted with the parties, & their claims, a board thus composed
would inspire greater confidence in the nation, if its decisions might
not be more correct.
Col: Butler lately of your staff is appointed Col: of the 4* Reg' of
Infantry, & Major Call retains his rank of Capt" in the line. It
would have given me pleasure to have placd the latter near you, but
eh on great consideration, I thought it better for you as well as for
myself, to pursue the course I have done. Mº Walton was strongly
supported by the two Senators from Georgia, Mº Walker,” & M"
Elliot,” both estimable men—I could do nothing else for him, &
Major Call was already provided for.
* For Scott, Smith, Hackley, Rodman, Hardin, and Anderson, see ante, p. 50.
* John Martin Baker, who had been an applicant for an appointment in 1817
and 1819 (NA,SD, Applications; Memoirs J. Q. Adams, IV, 486).
89 Freeman Walker.
* John Elliott,



F'L, OR I D A T E R R. I TORY 57
You go, yethese!; & take M” Jackson with you, into a new climate,
as is represented, and we believe, a very healthy one. Take care of
yourself & of her, for we wish to meet you both again.
I have full confidence that your appointment will be immediately &
most beneficially felt. Smugglers & slave traders will hide their
heads; pirates will disappear, & the Seminoles, cease to give us trouble.
So effectual will the impression be, that I think, the recollection of
your past worries, will smoothe your way as to the future. Past
experience shews, that neither of us are without enemies. If you
still have any, as may be presumed, they will watch your mov'ments,
hoping to find some inadvertent circumstance, to turn against you.
Be therefore on your guard. Your country indulges no such feelings.
From it you will find, a liberal confidence, & a generous support.”
With my best wishes for your welfare, & the best regards of my family
for M** Jackson, I am dear Sir your friend & serant
JAMES MONROE
[Endorsed) James Monroe to Gen' Jackson dated 23* May 1821
Rec" at Montpelier
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON -
[NA: SD, Dom. Letters, XIX ºl
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 23 May 1821
MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON Governor of East & West Florida
SIR I have had the honour of receiving your Letters of the 2.”
12 and 12 of April “from Nashville. The request of instructions
relating to the Seminole Indians contained in the first of them having
been referred by the President to the Secretary of War, has been
answered through that Department.”
The List of Officers appointed by the President within the Territory
which is transmitted to you consists altogether of Citizens of the
United States the objects of their respective functions being the
introduction and establishment of the Laws of the Union in the
Country.
It is not however the intention of the President that in the distri-
bution of Official situations the natives or inhabitants of the Country
itself should be overlooked—The offices the duties of which relate to
the Civil and internal administration of the Territory, will be those for
* Answered post, p. 70.
* Printed also in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 754.
* Ante, p. 28.
* Loc. cit., printed ibid., p. 756. Only one letter of Apr. 12 is found, but a letter
of the 10th is printed ante, p. 31.
** Ante, p. 40.



58 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
which the qualifications of the people of the Country will be peculiarly
appropriate, and leaving the distribution of them entirely to your dis-
cretion, he is confident it will be exercised with a just regard to the
interests and feelings of the people of Florida; and in a manner which
may tend at once to their satisfaction, and to render their change of
condition as acceptable to their inclinations, as it is hoped it will be
propitious to their welfare.”
I am &c
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS-
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., J.307:C)
Copy MonTPELIER, May 26* 1821
SIR, I have this moment received your letter of the 1* of May
with its enclosure.”
I have duly noted your observations on the subject of the Indians
in the Floridas, but I have not received the copy of the instructions
to the Sub Agent for the Indians in Florida,” nor the letter” under
cover of which it was transmitted to me. When it reaches me it shall
be duly attended to. I would barely remark that M*Queen," and his
son resided before the Creek war in the very heart of the Creek Nation.
They fled to Florida, has continued their hostility until conquered and
ordered to return to his own nation. Surely Georgia could not com-
plain of his being compelled to return to the limits of his nation.
However this is a subject for the deliberation of the government and
whatever may be its instructions will be duly observed by me. One
thing is very certain. As long as they are permitted to remain in the
Floridas, it will be a receptacle for rogues, murderers, and runaway
negroes.
I will thank you to forward me a duplicate of your instructions to the
Sub Agent for the Florida Indians. You will excuse this sheet, as we
are here without supplies of stationery, &c, Our baggage having been
left to be transported with our books to Orleans by water. I have
nothing from the Hornet since the 7”, the day on which M Thompson”
left her. Therefore the troops from Boston, if they sailed on the 28th
ultimo will be in time for the Hornet. Suppose the Hornet does not
come before the lapse of six months, or if she does the Governor
* Acknowledged June 13, 1821, printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 763.
* Ante, p. 40.
* Ante, p. 26.
* Ante, p. 25.
1 Peter McQueen.
* Gilbert Livingston Thompson.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 59
General of Cuba does not please to send an order, is possession to be
taken, or having a perfect right to the Country, are we to open a
negotiation with the officers of the King of Spain for possession.' I
would like to be advised on this subject. I am wearied with suspense.
I am, Sir, with great esteem, and respect, Your mo: ob' Servº,
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HON: J. C. CALHOUN–Secretary of War.
[Endorsed] Jackson. A. &c Montpelier, 26 May, 1821 relative to
Indians in Florida—requests duplicate of instructions to Sub Agent."
relative to taking possession of Florida copy
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER •
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:C 7]
No 1.8 S* AUGUSTINE May 26th 1821.
SIR I had the honor to inform you on the 24* instant of my arrival
at this place,” and of the powers with which I have been vested by the
government of United States. It affords me much satisfaction to find
from the short conversation I had on yesterday with your Excellency,
that our sentiments so well accord, and that our exertions will be
mutual in affording every possible facility to a speedy and satisfactory
termination of the official intercourse anticipated between us. In strict
accordance with my instructions, it becomes necessary, to ask officially
of your excellency, whether you have been furnished with any orders
from the Goven' Gen' of Cuba, authorising the delivery of the Province
under your command to the Commissioner appointed for its reception
on the part of my government. I beg leave to add in conclusion, that
I am prepared to commence the negotiation, and to comply with the
stipulations of the treaty, touching this subject in its full extent.” I
have the honor to be very respectfully. y St
ROBERT BUTLER Adjº Gen' & Comissioner.
To HIS EXCELLENCY JOSE COPPINGER Govenor &c St Augustine.
* A long legal opinion by Henry M. Brackenbridge, May 15, 1821, on the right
of the United States to take possession of Florida under the treaty with Spain, is
found in LC (Jackson Papers, Vol. 59).
* Another copy of these instructions and of the letter of Mar. 31 to Jackson were
sent to him on June 19, post, p. 81.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
7 Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 875.
* The documents relating to Butler's activities in East Florida are in a series
numbered from 1 to 32. Footnotes have been appended to the material selected
for publication which summarize those documents not chosen.
* Not found. -
* Answered by Coppinger the same date (No. 2) to the effect that he had
received no orders but would write to the Captain General of Cuba immediately;
printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 876. See post, p. 61.



60 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v. ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE East Florida 6* June 1821
SIR. I have the honor to inclose for your information a copy of a
letter from James Ramage Esq." Commander of the United States
Schooner Porpoise, addressed to Governor Coppinger"—also, the
Governors answer as connected with his note to me of this morn-
ing”—M" Ramage anchered off the bar on yesterday and sent the
note by the Governm" pilot, and shortly after weighed ancher &
sailed eastwardly and has not since been seen—
The Governor is yet without any instructions from Cuba, and
contemplates dispatching a vessel to that place on tomorrow with a
view to obtain some information—His ostensible object, I have reason
to believe is to urge the necessity of his being furnished with funds to
pay off debts to a considerable amount, which he stands individually
pledged for, and also to obtain funds to pay the Troops, who are I
believe, in a very ungovernable and mutinous state—
I am occasionally furnished with information of threats on the
part of the Spanish Officers and soldiers against the Americans, but
I view these expressions as idle and intitled to no consideration—I
feel assured that they shall not have any grounds upon which to
found vindictive passions—
The Indians are frequent here, parading the streets in a drunken,
riotous manner—There is almost a total absence of legal Government
at this time, and it is more than desirable that we should get imme-
diate possession to prevent abuses which rumour says, are going on
with regard to landed titles—I am informed that the authorities here,
having possession of those titles, are determined to ship them at all
hazards, alledging as a reason that the United States would find it her
interest to destroy them—but if my information is correct, the reason
is founded on their having mutilated them by antidating tearing out
and inserting leaves, so as to make grants for much larger tracts of
land than were originally given—
I have received this information in a manner that I cannot make
any use of it, until there is some person appointed, with whom I can
officially communicate.
I have not heard from General Jackson by letter, since we parted;
and remain entirely uninformed, whether the Hornet, has yet reached
Pensacola or not—I am autherized by my instructions to draw on the
11 Present, dated June 5, 1821, concerns the convoying of the transports con-
veying the Spanish garrison to Havana.
* Present, dated June 6, 1821, states that he would inform the Governor of
Cuba of Butler's and Ramage's arrival, and that he was without orders to deliver
up the province.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 61
General for such funds as may be required should he not send them
to me; but I find it impossible to raise funds by draft on him, & I
have advised him that I should draw directly on you, if it became
necessary and I even fear; that, that cannot be accomplished short of
Darien—I hope this measure, will be approved if adopted; as the
amount will be small—
I shall give you the earliest advice, of the arrival of the Order from
the Capt. General of Cuba; and have only to add, that every arrange-
ment on the part of the U: States, has been made; and only awaits the
conclusion of the negotiation—
I have the honer to be, Very respectfully Yº Mº Ob. Sº
ROBERT BUTLER
THE HON” JoHN Q. ADAMS Secy of State U States
[Endorsed] Rob" Butler—
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.LS)
S* AUGUSTINE E. Florida June 7–1821. 2 o'Oloc P. M.
SIR: I have the satisfaction to inform you of the arrival off this
Harbor of the United States Schooner Nonsuch from the Havana,
in a passage of six days, bringing out the Spanish Commissioner.
The arrangements are so far matured on the part of the United
States, that I trust the possession will be had in a short time.
I am unable to give you particulars as I am compelled to send an
express forty miles to overtake the despatch sent you this morning,
and have therefore no time afforded to procure them *
I have the honor to be very respectfully Yr Mos Ob" Serº
ROBERT BUTLER
THE HON' JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State U. S.
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER 14
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:C 1)
No 4. ST AUGUSTINE Jume 8* 1821.
SIR I had the satisfaction to receive your note of this morning 1°
in which you are pleased to inform me that you have received “com-
petent orders”. to arrange the delivery of this province to the Com-
* See post, p. 80.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 876.
* Present (No. 3) and printed ibid.



62 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
missioner authorized by the government of the United States to
receive it. As we now are the mutually declared authorities touching
this business, and as I presume, you are as I am, satisfied in this
official recognition. I shall at once conform to my instructions by
opening the subject generally that no unnecessary delay may arise.
To enable me to comply with the provisions of the 7” Article of
the treaty, lately ratified by our respective governments, it becomes
necessary to call on your Excellency for a statement of the number
of officers both civil and military and troops,” for which I am to
provide transportation to the Havanna, and also to arrange the
provisions for their subsistence, which altho’ not expressly mentioned
in the treaty, yet the liberal construction, which my government is
disposed to give that instrument has induced the arrangement. It
is desirable also to have a distinction drawn between those officers
who have families and those who have not, as I feel disposed to afford
as much comfort as possible without departing from my instructions
in the arrangement of the transports. As this information is im-
portant to the immediate consummation of my preparatory duties,
I hope you will give me early advices, to enable me to place myself
subject to your wishes in the final arrangement.
To evince my respect for you personally, as well as officially, and
feeling as I do every friendly disposition towards cultivating, the
happy understanding which exists between our respective govern-
ments, I am induced to ask your Excellency to embrace in the form
of a projet 1” your wishes with regard to the manner and probable
time of delivery of the province under your command. 2” the
subject islands dependant on said province 3" public Lotts and
squares 4" public edificies, 5* fortifications with their appendant
defences 6* Barracks and other buildings, which are not private
property, and 7” the Archives and documents which relate directly
to the property and sovreignty of said province, accompanied with a
schedule of the property contained under the 2* 3" 4* 5” & 6th
heads.
The arrangements which may relate to the embarkation of your
troops, I shall leave out of view for the present, as I desire on this
head to consult your wishes, in a conference previous to entering of
record any preliminaries, touching that point, believing as I do, that
we can more satisfactorily meet each others views by a conference
than written communications
As the projet which I have requested is when complete to be in the
character of a general arrangement destined to be passed for the
information of our respective governments, as an acquittal of the
duties required of us, I feel the more solicitious, that you should
17 Such a statement was supplied by Coppinger on June 11, 1821, post, p. 66.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 63
submit it, as the most particular evidence of the friendly disposition
of the government which I have the honor to represent.”
I renew to Yr Excellency the Assurances of my distinguished
Consideration
ROB" BUTLER
GOV* COPPINGER
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ROBERT BUTLER
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR 9th June 1821.
COL. ROBERT BUTLER Sº Augustine.
SIR, Your letter of the 21* ultimo is received,” and your proposi-
tions to augment the Garrison of Sº Augustine by adding the Company
stationed at Fernandina, and of changing the name of the Fortress
there have been submitted to the President, who altho' he views the
subject of keeping a company at Fernandina as you do, yet as he con-
siders the proposed strength of the Garrison for Sº Augustine sufficient
he does not think it advisable to place it there particularly as there
are so many other points on the Atlantick frontier that will require it.
In regard to the fortress whose name you propose to change, as the
President presume it has a Spanish name, and as he considers it unad-
visable to change names except in case with some manifest necessity,
which he does not think exists on the present occasion, he does not
think it proper to give you on the present occasion permission to change
the name as you request.”
The provisions to Subsist the Spanish troops sailed from New York
a month ago and have no doubt reached their destination before this.”
J. C. C.
GOVERNOR COPPINGER TO ROBERT BUTLER 22
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C 23)
No 5. S* AUGUSTINE June 9th 1821.
SIR. Before satisfying each of the particulars contained in the note
which, under date of yesterday,” you did me the honor of sending me,
18 Answered (No. 5) below.
1° Ante, p. 48.
* The name was changed by War Department General Order of Jan. 7, 1825,
to Fort Marion after Gen. Francis Marion of Revolutionary War fame. By an
act approved June 5, 1942 (56 STAT. 312), Fort Marion National Monument
became Castillo San Marcos National Monument.
* No acknowledgment found.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 877.
* Ante, p. 61



64 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I have thought it convenient to inform you that in the expedient that
must be formed, to proceed to the delivery of the province under my
charge, there must be inserted authentic copies of the treaty concluded
between our respective governments, of the Royal schedule of the
24” of October last, that I have received for the delivery, and rest of
the orders appertaining to it, and likewise including that in which I
am named and empowered by his Excellency the Captain General of
the island of Cuba and two Floridas, in his name to make said delivery
to the Commissioner of the United States of America duly authorized
to receive it; and altho, individually, I am perfectly satisfied that you
are the commissioner: Notwithstanding to proceed with all the cir-
cumspection requisite to so important a subject, I must therefore beg
you to oblige me by sending the document in which you are authorized
for said Commission a Copy of which will be united to said documents,
serving as preliminaries on the delivery and receipt, that will be done
with all the solemnity possible. In the mean time, I shall communi-
cate you a knowledge of other affairs, which you demand, and always
with the highest consideration and esteem for your person.”
I have the honor to be Sir Yr obt Sev"
(Signed) JOSE COPPINGER
Translated by H. E. request FRAN" J. FATIO.
ROB" BUTLER Esqr Adjutant Gen' U. S. Army
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:ALS)
PENSACOLA 9th June 1821.
SIR I have the honor of anouncing to you at length my arrival
here this day and of my visit to the Governor who has assured me of
his readiness to deliver this province—
Upon farther Conversation with my Spanish Colleague Don Alva
during the passage, I find that he alone is charged with the delivery of
the province of East Florida and that Don Arredondo the Adminis-
trator was only to be the Bearer of despatches in the Nonsuch—
From all the information I can collect here, I feel confident that the
Spanish authorities are as anxious to quit this Territory as we are to
become possessed of it.
As the Governor had not read his despatches, he promised to answer
in writing my question this day (say in the evening) which was when
I could notify the Government of his readiness to evacuate the Posts
According to your orders I have given by this Conveyance notice
** Answered June 10, 1821 (No. 6), enclosing his commission as requested;
printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 877. See post, p. 66.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 65
to General Jackson** of my arrival and of my interview with the
Spanish Commandant
I am with the greatest respect Sir, Your Most Obedient and very
faithful Servant
JAMES G. FORBES
To THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
[Endorsed) James G. Forbes—Ack" rec. 24 Sep.”
CIRCULAR TO THE DISTRICT ATTORNEYS OF THE
UNITED STATES
[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. of Debts and Suits, Bk. 2)
CIRCULAR TO THE DISTRICT ATTORNEYS OF THE UNITED STATES 2"
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Fifth Auditor's Office, June 11, 1821.
SIR. The President of the United States having, under the authority
vested in him by the Act of May 15, 1820,” entitled “An Act providing
for the better organization of the Treasury Department,” a Copy of
which is hereunto annexed, designated me “Agent of the Treasury, to
direct and superintend,” from and after the first of July next, “all
orders, suits, or proceedings, in law or equity, for the recovery of
Money, chattels, lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in the name
and for the use of the United States,” I take occasion thus early to
apprize you of the circumstance, and to request that the statement
required to be transmitted by the seventh section of the said act,
may, after that period, be forwarded to this office. With a view to
uniformity in the returns to be made under that section, by the several
District Attorneys, the necessity for a prompt and regular trans-
mission of which I cannot too forcibly urge, a form has been prepared,
of which I send enclosed—printed copies. When these are exhausted,
other copies will be supplied, on your requisition.
The large and increasing amount due, and withheld by individuals,
to the United States, for which suits have unavailingly been instituted
in almost every section of the country, while the government has been
obliged to resort to loans to supply a deficiency thus created, has been
a cause of just and severe animadversion. It is to be hoped, there-
fore, that you will use your best exertions, in every case where suit
has been, or may be, instituted in your district,” to obtain a recovery
* See post, p. 89.
** Post, p. 214.
* The first paragraph of this circular was sent in circulars of the same date to
marshals and clerks of the District and Circuit Courts of the United States.
27 3 STAT. 592–596.
* A number of suits were instituted in Florida Territory in succeeding years
pursuant to this instruction. (1) Case of Micajah Crupper, former officer of
301867–56–6



66 T. E. R. R. I TO R. I. A. L. P. A P E R S
of the money, and a payment of it into the Treasury, with as little
delay as the forms of law will admit of.
So far as the instructions heretofore given by the Comptroller, may
apply, you will be governed by them, until they shall be specially
superseded by others from this Office.
I am &c.
(Signed) S. PLEASONTON
Agent of the Treasury
GOVERNOR COPPINGER TO ROBERT BUTLER 29
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C.”)
No 7. AUGUSTINE June 11th 1821
SIR I have received your note of the 10” ins** in which you
enclose me your appointment as Commissioner to receive in the name
of the United States of America the Province under my charge, and
the U. S. Army: Stephen Pleasonton to Governor DuVal, Mar. 3, 1825. (2) Case
of Dusar and Israel relative to custom house bonds: Edgar Macon to Pleasonton,
Aug. 19, 1823. (3) Case of Antonio Giraldo for whom Joseph M. Hernandez
and Joseph Delespine were sureties: Pleasonton to John Rodman, May 21, 1825,
Sept. 8, 1827; Thomas Douglas to Pleasonton, Feb. 3, Aug. 15, 1827; Pleasonton
to Douglas, Aug. 31, 1827. (4) Case of Charles Gobert, late contractor for
manufacturing musket balls, and his surety, Gabriel W. Perpall: Pleasonton to
Macon, Feb. 24, Mar. 25, Aug. 6, Sept. 9, 1824; Macon to Pleasonton, Mar. 2, 8,
Aug. 24, 1824; Waters Smith to Pleasonton, July 18, 1825, May 13, 1830; Douglas
to Pleasonton, Feb. 3, May 15, 1827, Sept. 10, 1828, May 28, 1829, Feb. 17, 1830;
Delegate White to Pleasonton, May 25, 1828; Perpall to Pleasonton, Sept. 10,
1828; Charles Govert to Pleasonton, Sept. 10, 1828. (5) Case of Cary Nicholas,
an employee of the territorial government: Delegate Call to Pleasonton, Feb. 24,
1825. (6) Case of William Saltonstall, deceased deputy marshal of West Florida:
Pleasonton to Benjamin D. Wright, May 18, 1826; Wright to Pleasonton, June 8,
1826. (7) Case of Joseph Simeon Sanchez relative to custom house bonds:
Delegate White to Pleasonton, Apr. 5, 1828; Pleasonton to Waters Smith, Apr.
24, 1828; Smith to Pleasonton, May 14, 1828. (8) Case of William F. Steele
U. S. Attorney at Pensacola who had taken insolvent oath: John Miller to
Pleasonton, Nov. 6, 1824. (9) Case of Lt. Joseph Thomas: Joseph M. White to
William Lee. July 8, 1824; White to Pleasonton, Aug. 20, 1824, Jan. 19, 1825;
Pleasonton to White, July 30, 1824, Feb. 10, 1825. (10) Case of James William-
son and Edward Shearman: Smith to Pleasonton, July 27, Sept. 13, 1825, Jan. 26,
1826; Pleasonton to Smith, Aug. 27, 1825. (11) Case of Maj. Joseph Woodruff:
Thomas Douglas to Pleasonton, Mar. 14, 1827, May 28, 1828; Pleasonton to
Douglas, Mar. 19, 1827. (12) Case of Thomas Wright, late paymaster U. S.
Army: William F. Steele to Pleasonton, July 28, Nov. 20, 1823, Feb. 10, 27, 1824
(NA, JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U. S. Attorneys, Marshals, and Clerks of Courts,
Fla.; NA, JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Sent, Debts and Suits). Other correspondence
in these files, of a more routine character, relates to the sureties of attorneys and
marshals and their returns of court actions and executions.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 877.
ai Present, No. 6.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 67
altho' you have pointed out to me that it was believed on your part,
that a more summary mode than that I have proposed was the per-
suasion in which your government was would be observed, I must
remark that attending to what the treaty Royal schedule of delivery,
Orders of my Captain Gen' and the importance of the same affair
merits I have thought the proposal the most analogical and worthy to
fill the objects, altho I am disposed to rectify it in any of the parts that
do not agree or are unnecessary in the insinuated requisites. Coincid-
ing with the ideas that you have manifested me it is my desire that
our respective Commissions be complied with as soon as possible; but
having, received at the same time the order for the delivery of this
Province, with those that ought to have been communicated ere this,
to prepare and facilitate said delivery, is therefore the cause that it
cannot be executed in all its parts with that despatch we desire: On
that account I request your attention in respect to the advices and
intelligence my government has given me, regulated to the treaty to
make known to all the inhabitants of the country, in as much as that
part stipulated in respect to them, as also the particular steps they
have determined, shall be taken for those who wish to emigrate to
various parts of the Spanish Dominions: The Artillery, military
stores, and ammunition, that are to be transported is another of the
important points, the operation of which demands some order and
time; in this particular as well as others, altho' they are not of as
much consequence, it is requisite to execute them. I therefore
consider it necessary we should establish a private conference, a
medium by which we can conciliate our respective opinions, and
accellerate its brevity, for which case I reserve manifesting you my
observations, that united with those you may uniformly make, can be
formalized in a species of Convention that will point out with exact-
itude the method of the operation and will deliver us from some
difficulties that generally occur in such cases. In answer to the first
particular of your note of the 8* ins** enclosing you a circumstantial
account of the Military force of this Garrison, including the families
belonging thereto; likewise another, of those employed in this place
under the immediate dependancy of the National Finance, both one
and the other, with their respective remarks for the ends that may be
thought necessary.” Before leaving off this subject, rendering your
government the honor and justice it merits, I pay them the tribute of
my sincere thanks for the liberal sense given to the 7” Article of the
treaty, generously supplying the necessary provisions during the
voyage of the officers, troops and those persons employed in the
finance, and to you sir, for the frankness you have manifested, and
which no doubt will shorten our future communications. As I have
* Ante, p. 61.
* The statements, in the form of tables, are present but not here reproduced.



68 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA PER S
heretofore expressed, I think it proper there should be a personal
interview for arranging the embarkation of said Artillery, military
Stores, and ammunition, and other particulars which I wish to com-
municate. We will then determine positively the day on which the
delivery of the province under my charge can be effected, as all other
calculations would be useless without such an antecedent agreement.
In respect to the Lotts, Squares, public edifices, fortifications, Bar-
racks and other public property, with the documents and archives
that appertain directly to the right and sovreignty of this province,
you can immediately designate the person or persons that are to
receive the inventories plans &c, to prepare and advise the needful
(for the purpose of advancing this operation) to the Commandant of
engineers of this City, for the delivery of each of the respective
departments, and also the documents appertaining to individual
property, and those alluding to the sovreignty of the province, for
which I will give the competent order, when I am advised by you of
those chosen for the purpose. To give you as I wish an exact account
of the adjacent Islands to this province, is almost beyond my power,
for the want of a general map that deleniates their positions, extension
and circumstances, but with the exception of Amelia, which is in the
posession of the United States, and that, forming the harbor of this
port, known by the name of St Anastacia, on which is situated the look
out house, all the rest are nearly without population, as likewise the
public lands: you will therefore have a knowledge of those to be taken
posession of as Gov" property, under the impression there may be of
their not being granted. I beleive want of exactitude will Suffer no
difficulties to arise, seeing the good faith and long posession the
Spanish Government has had of them since the treaty concluded
between her and great Brittain in Versailles the 19* Sept. 1783, in
which no particular specification is made of said islands, nor is there
any document relative to the affair. The plain and ingenuous
manifestation with which I have tried to satisfy the particulars
contained in your note of the 8” must convince you of the friendly
disposition to fill the Commission confided to me, with that harmony
and friendship which has untill now guided us, and which I am certain
will not be interrupted, as I have the greatest opinion of the amiable
qualities which adorn you. God preserve you many years.”
Signed JOSE COPPINGER
* In his answer of June 13, 1821 (No. 8), Butler called attention to the second
part of his letter of June 8 and requested compliance with it. He also informed
Coppinger that his government considered the artillery as part of the fortifications
and was not to be removed. The letter is printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 878. See
post, p. 72.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 69
Rob" Butler Esqr. Adjº Gen' Soº Division U. S. Army & Com-
missioner &c. &c.
Translated by the desire of his Excellency Govt Coppinger—
FRAN* J FATIO. -
THE PRESIDENT TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., P255:ALS)
OAK HILL June 13. 1821.
DEAR SIR Having occasion to send to Washington to morrow, I
avail myself of the opportunity a day sooner than the mail would afford
it, to return to M*Adams some interesting papers * & among them one
from Col: Forbes,” at Havanna, & one from General Jackson,” on
the latter of which, or rather more especially on the course, which I
think, ought to be pursued, in the present juncture, I have expressd
my sentiments very fully. We must either move our troops instantly
to the coast or return to the upper country. To do the latter would
I think be in the highest degree disgraceful. It seems best therefore
to move to the coast, & take safe positions [MS. torn “] Spaniards
do not forthwith evacuate, [MS. illegible *] with the Spanish troops.
Gen' Jackson should organize a gov", issue a proclamation, & and
declare our jurisdiction established. no harm can result from this
& much good may.
The generals letter is in my opinion sound in principle, & he de-
clares himself, as obeying orders, in waiting the arrival of the Hornet
&c but he might have said that he presumd & believd his course would
be fully approvd by his gov". It would have had the appearance of
greater respect, but not the reality as I presume.
I enclose you an incorrect copy, being the first draft of my letter
to Mr Adams,” with the omission of a paragh or two at the end wh.
I have not time to add, that you may be acquainted with the object
of the meeting of the adm" which in that paragh is [MS. illegible *]
before it takes place. Much is to be done by your dep', and some-
** Not present.
* Referring to letter to the Secretary of State, Apr. 28, 1821, NA (SD, Fla.
Terr. Papers, v), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 742–743. Other letters from
id. to id., all relating to the negotiations at Havana respecting the disposition of
the archives and the artillery, are dated May 5, May 9, May 14, May 17, May 22,
May 23, May 28, and May 30, 1821 (loc. cit., printed ibid., pp. 743–744, 744–745,
746–747, 748).
*7 May 7, 1821, to the Secretary of State (loc. cit., printed ibid., p. 758). See
also ante, p. 38.
* Two words missing.
* Two or three words missing.
* Not found.
*: One word missing.



70 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
thing depends in regard to Gen' Jackson's letter, on the instructions
to him from you, as with us from Mr Adams. [MS. illegible *].
If the course which I would suggest is approvd instructions to the
effect pointed out should be given by Mr Adams to General Jackson,
& by you in decided terms to General Gaines & others—
very sincerely yours JAMES MONROE
It would have better if the troops had been orderd in the first in-
stance to the coast, but that was declind from delicacy to Genl Wives,
who requested that they might not enter till the Spanish were removd.
Your communication therefore with him will be proper.
If this plan is not adopted, we must order Gen' Jackson not to move.
I think however the true course is as stated in my communication.
Avoiding collision with the Spanish troops there is no danger, and it
puts the delay, if imputable to the Spanish officers; & the perfidy, if
imputable to the govt, in a more odious light, & forces with more
certainty the effect. To stand where we are, or move back, would
be expose us eminently, the territory being ours.
Perhaps it might be best simply to state to the Spanish minister,
that we our troops could not remain where they are on account of
sickness. and had movd forward, in expectation that the Spanish
troops would soon evacuate. However every thing will be considerd.
Return me the paper enclosed.*
[Endorsed] President of the U States Oak hill, 13 June, 1821—
relative to the occupation of Florida
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON
TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:ALS)
MOUNTPELIER June 13th 1821
DEAR SIR Last night your letter of the 23" of May “was delivered
to me by express from Milledgville together with those from the Sec
of State,” that from the Sec of War referred to is not rec" with them.**
Having just received official Intelligence of the arival of Colo
Forbes at Pensacola” with an order to the Governor of that place
for the delivery of West Florida, and making preparations to set out
* Three lines missing.
* Answered June 18, 1821, LC (Monroe Papers), printed, Jameson (ed.),
Corr. Calhoun, A. H. A., Annual Rept., 1899, II, 188–190.
* Ante, p. 53.
** Ante, p. 57.
* Cf. ante, p. 53. No letter of May 23 from the Secretary of War has been
found.
* Forbes notified both the Secretary of State and Jackson on June 9 of his
arrival there that day, ante, p. 64. See also post, p. 89.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 71
on the morning of tomorrow to see & make arrangements for the
receipt of the country with the Governor, gives me but little time &
prevents me at present from taking a full View of your letter at
present.—which I will do at the first moment of Leisure—
The appointment of those officers, shall & the division of the Terri-
tory, as regulated by you shall be announced by after Proclamation
as Soon as I am in possession of the Government, and all the urbanity
in my power extended to those gentlemen you have mentioned, and
the publick building, as far as can be Spared, placed in their possession
as requested. I had Sent Capt Call” to Pensacola cloathed with
powers to make all necessary arangements with the Governor, for
the Speedy evacuation of St Marks on the arival of Col" Forbes, that
its garrison might be transported under convoy of the Hornet with
the other Spanish Troops, the moment the Col” arived Capt Call pro-
duced his power and entered with the Governor into this arangement,
the Governor offerred promptly to give the order for the delivery, if
Capt Call would give him a recept for the ordinance & ordinance
Stores attached to & appurtaining to the fortification, to which Capt
Call preremtoriyly refused & immediately reported the Same to me—
on which I adressed the Gov" " gave Capt Call written instructions
on this point, that if necessary he might shew to the governor, & Capt
Call immediately returned to Pensacola—all which in due time will
be communicated to you through the Sec of State, and I trust will
meet your Views & approbation.
I thank you for the solicitude expressed with regard to the health
of M** J. & my self—How far Pensacola may prove beneficial to both
or either is to be proven by experience Thus far the climate has
proved injurious to both, and neither enjoys good health at present,
but I hope Pensacola may prove more hospitable to our constitu-
tions,—Should it not I will have to abandon the climate all toger.
with a tender of the kindest salutations from M** Jackson & my self,
to you your lady and family believe me to be with great respect yr
mo, ob, Servt,
ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MONROE President of the U States—
|Addressed) James Monroe President of the United States (private)
mail
[Endorsed] June 13—1821 Gen' Jackson June 13. 21, A Jackson
Florida
* See Jackson to Callava, May 11, 1821, NA(SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed,
Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 54–55, and Call's report of May 21 (loc. cit.), printed,
A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 761.
* Not found. Callava's reply of May 16 to Jackson's message brought by Call
is in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), in which he expresses approval of the proposal
to transport the garrison of St. Marks to Pensacola, but states he must await the
receipt of orders before supplying the information requested.



72. T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER 60
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:C 51)
No 10. St AUGUSTINE June 15" 1821
SIR Your note under date of yesterday * in answer to mine of
the 13* ins' has been handed to me this morning—I feel great satis-
faction at your having given such general attention to the subjects
contained in my note aforesaid. There are two points in your note,
which claim on my part explanation. The 1* relates to the following
Sentence, as given by you in quotation from my note of the 10* Wiz
“Fortifications with their dependancies or appertaining defences” as
this is calculated to give impressions different from what was expressed,
I beg to be excused for giving the annexed quotation from the Copy
in my possession bearing date the 8” and not the 10" ins" and which
is in the following words Wiz “Fortifications with their appendant de-
fences.” The second point relates to the expression in your Excel-
lencys note just received, and of which the following is a quotation
“That your Government considered the Artillery Ammunition and
ordnance stores that are in the fortifications appertaining to them by
right and that such effects are comprehended in the meaning of the
cession. Opposed to which I insert the following quotation, from my
note of the 13* ins' and to which you allude Wiz “that my government
considered the Artillery in the fortifications appendant and of right
belonging to them and embraced in the meaning and intention of the
cession and therefore to be left with them!” From this expression
your Excellency will certainly perceive that the United States laid no
claim to the ammunition and ordnance stores. Could I think myself
at liberty to enter into discussion on the merits of the construction
which my government has given to the treaty in relation to the Artil-
lery, I flatter myself that I could convince you satisfactorily that the
meaning and intention of the contracting parties were, that the
Artillery in the fortifications was appendant to and should remain
with them. Such would also appear to have been the impression of
the Cap". Gen' of Cuba from his order to you of the 5" Ultimo, (a
copy of which I have received from the United States Commissioner
from Cuba) in which he does not require the removal of the Artillery,
added to which, the total silence of the 7” Article of the treaty on the
subject of furnishing transportation for the Artillery, ammunition,
and ordnance Stores, or even provisions for the subsistence of the
Troops on their passage. As I feel myself authorized to infer from
your note of the 14* ins" that you are determined to remove the
Artillery; it becomes my duty to enter my protest against the measure.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 18, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 879.
* Present (No. 9) and printed ibid.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 73
But before appending it to this communication, I would suggest that
should you feel authorized to form a different conclusion with regard
to the Artillery, and determine to leave it, I will engage to furnish a
reasonable proportion of transportation for the Ammunition and
ordnance stores; but on the other hand should you still determine to
remove the Artillery I do hereby respectfully protest against the
measure, and declare that I do not consider the U. States bound, to
furnish either transportation or escort for the Artillery, ammunition
and ordnance stores, and that they have and will exercise a claim on
the Spanish government, as well for the Artillery, so removed, as the
provisions which they have procured for the subsistence, of the
Spanish troops from this to the Havana, should the same be made use
of. As this point now remains for decision exclusively with you, and
should that decision correspond with the sentiments contained in
your last note, I consider it placed out of the pale of my duties, and
subject to future discussion between our two respective Governments
alone. I have to request that the public property at Amelia Island
will also embraced in the plans preparing by the Com" of Engineers.
I shall do myself the honor to call and confer with your Excellency on
tomorrow, with respect to our further duties and conclude with
renewed assurances of personal esteem and great regard *
ROBT BUTLER
H. E. GOVr COPPINGER.
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO
GOVERNOR. CALLAVA *
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v1:C)
(Copy) General Jackson to Don Jose Callava.
MANUELS, West Florida 15 Miles from Pensacola, June 16th 1821.
SIR, Having been appointed by the President of the United States
as was made known to you at a former period by D" Bronaugh * and
* In his reply of June 16, 1821 (No. 11), Coppinger proposed a compromise
whereby the fixed cannon at St. Marks and Matanzas should remain while the
artillery should be sent out with the Spanish garrison. The letter is printed,
A. S. P. Misc., II, 880. See post, p. 79.
* An enclosure in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.
* Dr. James C. Bronaugh, of Va., was an army surgeon in the War of 1812,
assistant surgeon general in 1818, and honorably discharged June 1, 1821 (Heit–
man, comp., Hist. Reg. U. S. Army, I, 247). He was private secretary of Gov.
Jackson, for which service he was paid the sum of $1750 (NA, GAO, Fifth Audi-
tor's Rept., No. 2, p. 234, certified June 25, 1822). His appointment as receiver
of public money in West Florida was recommended by Jackson (Bassett, ed.,
Corr. Jackson, III, 59), but he was not so appointed. He was, however, appointed
a member of the first Legislative Council in Florida (post, p. 422), and was a candi-
date for election as Delegate to Congress in 1822 (Bassett, op. cit., p. 170). He
died Sept. 2, 1822 (Bassett, op. cit., p. 191 n.). See also post, pp. 531, 535.



74 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Judge Brackenridge,” sole Commissioner for receiving possession of
the Provinces of East and West Florida, and to fulfil on the part of the
American Government so far as connected with the accomplishment
of that interesting object, the stipulations of the Treaty of Amity,
Settlement of differences and Limits, as concluded by the Plenipo-
tentiaries of Spain and the United States on the 22” February 1819.
and ratified on the corresponding day of 1821; and having been ad-
vized by you of your having received an authority from His Catholic
Majesty, through the Captain General of Cuba to fulfil the stipula-
tions of the said Treaty so far as connected with the delivery and
evacuation of the Province of West Florida. I have to inform you
of my arrival at this place, prepared to accomplish the objects of my
Commission. -
I have to express a wish that a period as early as possible may be
concluded on to the mutual convenience of both parties, when we may
meet, exhibit our Credentials, officially recognize each other, and
enter on the duties of our respective commissions.
This will be handed to you by Col. Gadsden, of the United States
army, whom I beg leave to Your Excellency, as a gentleman of great
merit; he will take charge of any communication from yourself to me,
and has received authority to concert and conclude upon the arrange-
ments with the proposition made.”
I have the honour to be with much respect, &"
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON.
-
GOVERNOR CALLAVA TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON 57
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v1:C)
(Copy) Translation Don Jose Callava to General Jackson.
PENSACOLA, 16** June 1821.
MOST EXCELLENT SIR, I received yesterday your Excellency's
communication of the 12* instant,” dated at Montpelier, and am
advised of your having received mine of the 10** as also of the
answer you were pleased to make to it.
* May, 3, 1821, NA (Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv,
759. Callava's reply, same date, and the reply thereto by Bronaugh and Brack-
enbridge, May 4, are also found loc. cit., and printed ibid. These are enclosures
in Bronaugh and Brackenridge to Jackson, May 7, 1821, loc. cit., printed ibid.,
pp. 758–759. See post, p. 137.
* Answered June 19, 1821, NA (loc. cit.), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 71.
* An enclosure in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.
* NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI), printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III,
67–69.
* Loc. cit., printed ibid., pp. 66–67.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 75
Your Excellency adds that in relation to the 2* article of the
Treaty of Amity, recently concluded between Spain and the United
States, it is the opinion of the President of the United States, that the
Cannon belonging to the Fortifications, are to be considered as an-
nexed to them, and included in the cession; you then go on to sug-
gest some reflections of your own, and conclude by stating that you
are directed as Commissary to insist that by the stipulations of the
2* article of the Treaty, the Cannon found in the Fortifications and
constituting their batteries are dependencies on them, and included
in the Cession, and that they should be delivered with the armament
generally belonging to that work.
That Your Excellency may not have room to doubt in the least the
firmness of the argument to which I must reduce my reply, the object
of which is, by avoiding all digressions relative to the particulars of
your letter, to spare that time which is so necessary to us both for the
fulfilment of our respective duties, as regards the receipt and delivery
of West Florida, I must be somewhat diffuse, though diffinitive and
conclusive.
I must then begin by assuring Your Excellency that I respect in
every sense the opinion of the President, not only from the dignity
of his person, but chiefly from my want of authority to combat that
opinion. I must also represent to you that I am not authorized to
give any kind of interpretation to the articles of the Treaty: that I
must confine myself to the literal context of them, and to that of the
orders received by my Superior for their fulfilment; and lastly that
neither is it my province to judge or to investigate the interpretation
given or wished to be given by the President to the 7” article (of
which you call my attention to the liberal constructions allowed of
it by him.) nor to determine what the articles are, that are to be
transported, or whether the above mentioned constructions ought to
be put into the balance with those which you wish me to admit in
the 2* article, as all these questions are directly foreign to the powers
in my trust.
I must therefore beg leave to state as follows.
On the 9” instant, I received orders from the Captain General of
Cuba, commissioning me to make the necessary preparations for the
evacuation of this Province by the Troops of His Catholic Majesty,
in the space intervening between the day of receipt of his orders and
the 22* August next or sooner if possible, and commissioning me
also to arrange the Transportation of the Troops, Artillery, Munitions,
&” 50
* Dated May 5, 1821, NA (Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed, A. S. P., op.cit.,
p. 749. See additional orders, dated, respectively, May 27 and May 29, 1821,
loc. cit., printed ibid.



76 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
For the observance and accomplishment of this injunction, His
Excellency transmits to me therewith a copy of the Treaty, and another
of the Royal Letters Patent for the execution of the same,” according
to its tenor and the stipulations it contains.
In the second article of said Treaty, (amongst other things which
I omit as not relating to the present case.) is the following clause:
“His Catholic Majesty, cedes to the United States, in all property and
Sovereignty, the public Edifices, Fortifications and barracks. Now
a public edifice is one devoted exclusively to National uses, such as
Quarters, Hospitals, Magazines, &"—It is evident that the building
thus appropriated constitutes the edifice, and that the moveable furni-
ture, which may be placed within it at the owners option, forms no
part. He may remove them tomorrow, substitute different ones of
equal, greater, or less number, or value; suiting the destination of the
building, or with a totally distinct object. Consequently the effects
within or without the Edifices are not comprehended under the con-
clusive and genuine term Edifices, as used in the 2* article.
It is likewise manifest that in this article and with relation to the
words specified, it is not said: I cede with them or with the Fortifica-
tions the moveables, Artillery, and Munitions, which may or ought
to be destined to the same use that the buildings are, amounting to
such a number, or in general, or such as they stand at this day, or
at the day of their delivery.
It may also be said that it is an axiom admitted in society, that
previous to the formation of contracts of all kinds having for their
object a sale, a cession, or a transfer, a clear and specific mention is
necessarily made of all that is sold ceded or transferred to another.
A Fortification is nothing but an Edifice to which that name is
given, and consequently follows strictly the rule above mentioned;
the Artillery, Munitions, provisions, iron-work, arms, and other con-
tents, being the moveables contained in the Edifice, which does not
cease, when they are removed to be a Fortification.
The number of pieces of Ordnance at present in West Florida, and
the proportion which they bear to its size shew, that they never could
all have belonged nor have been necessary to its trifling and feeble
Fortifications—another circumstance demonstrative in my opinion
that Spain had no intention of ceding them to the United States in
the 2* article, since the indispensable mention would otherwise have
been made of them.
The inference from the above indisputable points is further confirmed
by the concluding clause of the Royal cedula referred to, sent by His
Catholic Majesty to the Captain General of the Havana; for (amongst
other things which I omitas foreign to the present question) it runs thus,
* Dated Oct. 24, 1820, printed ibid., p. 742.
º



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 77
“you will prepare for the delivery of the public Edifices, Fortifications,
and barracks, and of all the other effects which may belong to the
Nation, and are not found comprehended and mentioned in the ex-
pressed clauses of the cession you will cause them to be transported
to another point of the Spanish possessions, more convenient to the
public Service. The preliminaries being now settled and this reply
being reduced to the conclusion to which they lead, if Your Excellency
will do me the honour, for the sake of the amity and harmony which
reigns between us to put yourself into the place I occupy and the
duties I have to discharge, you cannot do less than acknowledge that
I ought not, and consequently cannot make you a delivery with the
Fortifications of the whole or a part of the Artillery, Munitions, and
other articles in this department, to pass with them into the property
and under the Sovereignty of the United States.
My warmest wishes have for their single object the good harmony
and amity which exist between our respective Governments, and
which I desire may reign between us; and I therefore incline to the
determination that Your Excellency, (considering the opinion enter-
tained by the President) should represent this difficulty to him, as
soon as you have time, as I consider that with His Catholic Majesty's
Minister Plenipotentiary at Washington, he may so arrange the
matter as to extricate us both from our embarrassing Situation: in
the meantime it appears to me a necessary as well as a warrantable
step to place the Artillery of the Forts with all the effects appertaining
to them under the safeguard of Your Excellency and the Officers and
Troops of the United States after having the proper inventories taken.
A Severe and sudden indisposition prevents my entering for the
present moment into farther particulars, of which I will treat with
Your Excellency with the first relief that I experience.”
God preserve Your Excellency many Years.
(Signed) JOSE CALLAVA.
JAMES GADSDEN TO GOVERNOR CALLAVA *
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI: C)
(Copy.) Col. Gadsden to Don Jose Callava.
PENSACOLA 18* June 1821.
SIR, Your communication of this date * was not received until
after I had made arrangements for leaving Pensacola early tomorrow
morning to rejoin General Jackson pursuant to a previous under-
standing with him.
* Answered June 17, 1821, NA (Fla. Terr. Papers, VI), printed, Bassett (ed.),
op. cit., p. 71.
* An enclosure in Jackson to the Secretary of State July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.
* Not found.



78 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
It is possible from an imperfect interpretation of our conversation
this evening * we may not distinctly have understood each other; and
it may be prudent to commit it to writing what was said as intended
and understood by me.
I made you under authority from Gen' Jackson but one proposition,
which was for an immediate delivery on your part of the Province of
West Florida to General Jackson, retiring with your Military force to
any convenient point which might be agreed upon, until the necessary
preparatory arrangements &" could be consumated for the embarka-
tion of the Spanish Troops. This was suggested under a belief that
such a measure might be a relief to Your Excellency; and prove
mutually agreeable to both parties. Of your supposed rejection of
this proposition I shall, as you request make no official communication
to Gen' Jackson, but leave it to be noticed by you at any convenient
or subsequent period.
The substance of my conversation otherwise was not by way of
propositions for your assent—General Jackson in his communication
to you presented through me, had expressed a wish that a period, and
place might be concluded upon for a personal interview, when you
might exhibit credentials, officially recognize each other, and be pre-
pared to discharge the complicated duties of your respective commis-
sions. The period and place for this purpose, you was willing, if I
distinctly understood you, to be designated by General Jackson—His
repairing therefore as early as convenient to Pensacola, with a small
guard and encamping the American Troops in its vicinity was con-
sidered by me as one of those preliminary measures necessarily con-
nected with the preparations to be made for receiving the Province of
West Florida, as well as for occupying the Military Post as soon as
evacuated; and not exposed to any objection on your part—General
Jackson's intention therefore was only accidentally mentioned as it
was both proper and decorous to advise you of it. The American
Troops are dependant upon the supply of Provisions now in Pensacola
and their encamping nearer that City than at present, is with a view
to their convenience and with no disposition to permit them to come
into collision with the Spanish Troops—Such an event is not antici-
pated and shall be prohibited.
Captain Call will receive and transmit to General Jackson any
communications you may wish to make him.”
Your Obdt Ser”
(signed) JAMES GADSDEN. Col. U. S. Army.
** Another copy of this document is present which gives this word as “morning”.
* Answered post, p. 82.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 79
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER 94
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:C ")
No 12. S* AUGUSTINE June 18th 1821
SIR, I received your note of the 16** ins' on that day,” in
answer to mine of the 15*,” the promised translation was handed
me this morning. After duly examining the documents you were
pleased to have me furnished with, in relation to the Stores,
Artillery &c.; and after a careful examination of my instructions
touching those points, I find that I cannot meet your proposition.
While I sincerely regret the difficulties, which we are from our respec-
tive instructions placed in, I feel extremely desirous, to place the
subject happily at rest between us. And therefore respectfully propose
the following arrangement, in addition to that given in my note of the
15” which is, that you will consent to leave all the Artillery, with
their implements, and a proportion of ammunition &c, for which I
will give a corresponding receipt, placing the proper construction of
the treaty, in the hands of our respective governments. And to
facilitate as much as possible the contemplated exchange, I will engage
to furnish transportation for the ammunition and stores, save that of
the Cannon balls, bombs, and grape shot, which you can have trans-
ported. And in like manner, the transportation furnished on my
part, as well as the provisions consumed on the voyage, and the
amunition which may be left with me, shall be subject to a similar
adjustment, on the part of our respective governments. Should your
instruction, in conjunction with your sound judgment authorize you
to adopt this proposition, I shall be more than pleased, as I am
constrained from a sense of duty to say, that it is the only arrangement
on this subject which I feel at liberty to enter into. But should your
views not correspond with mine, whilst I regret the circumstance,
I must refer you to the sentiments of my former note, in which is
embodied my protest, for your final decision thereon. It is now proper
that I should inform your Excellency that the United States is pre-
pared with escort, transport, provisions and water, to accomodate
the Spanish officers and Troops to the Havana, and that I am pre-
pared to enter immediately into the general arrangement for the
reception of the province which you have been selected by your
Government to deliver. I have designated Major Cross as a fit
and proper person to receive the Archives which relate to the
sovreignty, and individual property of the province. And Lieu"
Baird of the Corps of Artillery to receive the inventories, plans &c
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 881.
* Present, No. 11.
* Ante, p. 72. -



80 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
and to take posession of the islands dependant, public Lotts, and
squares, public ideficies and other buildings which are not private
property, and have therefore to request that you will give the neces-
sary orders in good time, as you were pleased to signify in your
note of the 11” ins' I must advert for a moment to the expression in
your last note which implies a waste of time in the explanations,
which I gave in my note of the 15"—with these sentiments I beg
leave to differ, as I deem it an essential duty to correct misunder-
standings, or incorrect quotations on important subjects. I need not
urge upon your Excellency how desirable it is that the contemplated
exchange, should be speedily effected, as well on account of the situa-
tion of the troops laying off this City, as the accumulating expence
daily arising from our state of preparation under the treaty. Permit
me to hope however that I may be furnished with Your final decision
on the subject of the Artillery at as early as hour as possible.”
(Signed) ROBT. BUTLER
GOVENOR COPPINGER.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE'SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, V.AL]
WAR DEPARTMENT June 19th 1821
The secretary of war presents his compliments to the Secretary of
State and encloses a copy of a letter received to day at the Office of
the Q Master General, from Maj. Cross, by which he will see that a
messenger from Havana had arrived at S*Augustine, with instructions
to its Governor to surrender possession to our forces, and that there
was a prospect of a speedy possession
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
[Addressed] The Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Secº of War–19 June 1821 Recd same day encloses a
letter from T. Cross concerning the surrender of the Floridas.
* Coppinger replied on June 19, 1821 (No. 13): “If I comprehend Y. E. proposi-
tions, they are, that if I do not consent to leave all the Artillery subject to the
decision of our governments, Y. E. offers to transport, on your account, the
amunitions and stores excepting the articles cannon, bombs, balls and grape shot,
which will remain at mine; leaving subject, likewise, the transportation which
Y. E. offers, and the rations consumed in the voyage of said ammunitions and
stores, to superior determination; and the ammunitions and implements of War
that I leave, remain subject to the same determination.” Such an arrangement
was agreeable to him. This letter is printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 881. On June
20 Butler answered with document No. 14 (printed ibid., p. 882), that he meant
that Coppinger should leave all the artillery and then listed 27 pieces including
mortars and howitzers that were to remain in battery. He also expressed an
intention to meet with Coppinger to discuss the property records of the province.
See post, p. 85.



FLORIDA. T E R R I TOR Y 81
[Enclosure]
Trueman Cross to the Quartermaster General
SAINT AUGUSTINE, June 8* 1821.
SIR, The U. S. Schooner Nonsuch arrived off this place yesterday
and landed a bearer of despatches from the Governor General of
Havanna to the Governor of this province—She left Havanna on the
1* instant, and sailed simultaneously with the Hornet, bearer of a
Messenger to Pensacola.
The Governor called on Col" Butler last evening and apprised him
of the receipt of the necessary instructions—He has hitherto professed
a readiness to make a surrender in 24 hours after the arrival of his
orders. We may therefore calculate on but little delay.
An order was despatched last evening to Amelia Island, for the
transport to move down after taking in the necessary supplies of wood
and water—She will be here in the course of five or six days—in the
meantime I hope the necessary arrangements will be effected, and an
immediate surrender take place.
I have the honor &c.
(Signed) T. CROSS.
To BRIG. GEN' JESUP Q. M. Gen".
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR June 19* 1821.
GEN" ANDREW JACKSON Govt Florida Pensacola.
SIR, I am sorry to learn by your letter of the [blank] * that mine of
the 31* of march * apprising you of the appointment of Mº Peniers
to be Sub. Agent to the Indians in Florida with a copy of his instruc-
tions had not reached you. I now enclose copies of both, which I
trust will be regularly received. I presume M* Peniers has arrived
at your Head Quarters before this, and that you will have found him
well qualified for the trust confided to him, as he is a very intelligent
man and possesses the faculty of obtaining the respect and regard of
the Indians.
By a letter received to day from Major Cross at S*Augustine dated
the 8* inst: we learn that dispatches from Havanna had been received
at that place by the Nonsuch for the Governor of the place to Surrender
possession to us, which it is presumed, has been done without delay,
and as similar dispatches have been forwarded to Pensacola at the
same time those for the Governor of Sº Augustine were sent by the
Nonsuch we expect that ere this, you are in possession of the entire
province. J. C. C.
* May 26, 1821, ante, p. 58.
* Ante, p. 25.
301867–57
7



82 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
GOVERNOR CALLAVA TO JAMES GADSDEN 71
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v1:C)
(Translation) PENSACOLA, 19. June 1821.
SIR. I received this morning by the hands of Captain Call your
valued letter, in which you have the goodness to communicate to me
the substance of our yesterday's interview, on the subject of your
authorization by his Excellency General A. Jackson.
The points mentioned in your letter of today are, I am now fully
persuaded, the same which my interpreter wished to make me com-
prehend; but I remained so much in doubt as to what was the positive
object to which they related, and whether the true sense had been
given to my replies, that as a proof of confidence and friendship I
requested for our better understanding that you would set them down
in writing and suspend your judgement.
The particular mode of correspondence never was nor could be,
nor is, considered by me as an essential point in our official communi-
cation on the above particulars, relatively to the said points, con-
sistently with His Excellency Genl Jackson's intimation in his com-
munication giving you authority; this subject therefore although
discussed on paper is susceptible of no other understanding than that
which might be given it by word of mouth.
I am particularly sorry that my note did not come to hand as soon as
I wished; but I can assure you that not eight minutes had elapsed
after you left my house, until I despatched my Secretary with it, and
the delay in its receipt on your part proceeded from my Secretary
not meeting with you in the places where he first directed his search.
Fully sensible as I am of the importance of the enquiries which you
wished to make of me in order that you may fulfil the charge entrusted
you by His Excellency General Jackson, I request that you will state
to him as follows;
That this place being a Seaport, I regard it as a point of absolute
necessity, that no more than the authorities of one single nation,
should subsist in it at the same time, to prevent the innumerable
evils which would result from any other state of things; Besides, as
the direction of the different branches under my charge, and the con-
duct of the measures preparatory to the evacuation, devolve on me,
it is absolutely necessary that the command should be vested in my
person, until the moment agreed upon for the embarkation of the
Troops, the delivery of the Records, and the formalization and
conclusion of the documents connected with an affair of such impor-
tance as is the evacuation of a Province.
In pursuance of your own observations on the removal of the
United States Troops, a measure which may become necessary in
7. Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 83
consequence or independently of the proposed evacuation, you will
also, if you please, apprize His Excellency, the Gen' that I am ready
and disposed to enter into any agreement with him, which circum-
stances may render adviseable.
I avail myself of this opportunity to assure you that I am Yr most
Obdt Servit.
(Signed) JOSE CALLAVA.
TO COL JAMES GADSDEN U. S. Army.
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.ALS)
S" AUGUSTINE June 20th 1821
SIR, I have the honor to report to you that the understanding which
at present exists between the Governer who is the Commissioner on
the part of Spain, and myself; that the exchange of flags will be
effected on or about the 1* of July: ” and in a manner which I trust
will be deemed satisfactory by my government—
I shall avail myself of the earliest opportunity after that event to
give you in detail the whole of the proceedings on that subject—
I was induced to believe from information rec" some time since,
that the provisions destined to subsist the Spanish forces to the
Havana had arrived at Amelia Island, and therefore gave an order for
their delivery to the Officer Com" the detachment destined to occupy
the Fortress at this place—A partial supply only was delivered and
that out of the supply for the troops at that place—I have therefore
dispatched a transport to Amelia to procure the supply necessary,
and if not in store to purchas such as may be wanting—I am without
any advices from the Commissary Gen" Department on this subject.
I have the honor to be, Very respectfully, Yº M* Ob" St
ROBERT BUTLER U:S: Commissioner.
THE HON” J. Q. ADAMS Secº of State of the U. States.
[Endorsed] Robert Butler—R. 7 July
JAMES G. FORBES TO COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR
JACKSON 73
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI:C)
PENSACOLA 21 June 1821.
SIR, I have received a letter from Don Pedro de Alva, the Spanish
Despatch Bearer, desiring to know if I could afford him the means of
* See post, p. 111.
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.



84 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
conveying the order of the Captain General of Cuba, to the Governor
of East Florida for the delivery of that Province to the United States.
I referred him for a conclusive answer, to Your Excellency, from
whom I had heard that there was no vessel here at present applicable
to that service—He tells me, he is ready to proceed by Land, if Your
Excellency will provide him a conveyance.
I am with great respect Sir Your Excellency's Most Obdt & very
humble Servt
(Signed) JAMES G. FORBES
To HIS EXCELLENCY MAJOR GEN" A. JACKSON Governor of the
Florida Camp near Pensacola
GOVERNOR CALLAVATO COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR
JACKSON 74
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vi.C)
PENSACOLA 22 June 1821.
MOST ExCELLENT SIR./With the correspondence which the Captain
General addressed to me per United States Sloop of War Hornet,
which anchored in this harbor on the evening of the 10” instant, His
Excellency acquainted me that he had delivered a Package for the
Governor of East Florida, containing the Orders for its delivery, to the
Spanish Citizen Don Pedro de Alva, who came in said vessel and who
was to proceed with said Package to St. Augustine; of which he had
also notified in the Havana, Col. Ja" G. Forbes the Commissioner of the
United States on account of the assistance which it may be necessary
for him to afford to Alva.
On the 12* instant, I sent for Captain Call, Your Excellency's Agent
here for the transportation of the Garrison of Apalache; I represented
to him the despatch with which Alva was entrusted, and that I thought
it would be very suitable he should embark in the Transports which
were to sail for that destination, whence he might pass over to St
Augustine by land, under any arrangements which he might agree
upon with Col. Forbes.
Call replied that the Captain of the Hornet had assured him that a
United States Schooner had sailed from the Havana for East Florida,
to which he had given in charge the Commission of conveying the
Packet containing the Captain General's orders for its delivery; and
although I insisted that Alva's going thither would not be superfluous,
as some unforeseen accident might befal that despatch. The vessels
set sail several days after, and neither Alva nor Forbes have taken
any measure on the subject, that I could learn.
I required Alva, yesterday, to give me an account of his proceedings
with Forbes in relation to the aid which it was proposed at the Havana,
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, post, p. 137.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 85
the latter should give him, what arrangements Forbes had made, and
how it was, he was remaining wholly inactive here. In reply, Alva
informs me Forbes has arranged and agreed on nothing, pursuant to
the suggestions which he has made him, and that in a letter which he
sent him, he has finally exonerated himself by saying that he would
submit the matter to Your Excellency.
It is incomprehensible what a medley the absurdities and visionary
projects of Alva and Forbes form; they live together and can aione
understand each other; but this much is certain, that the Package is
here, and I am at this moment perplexed by the uncertainty of its
being or not being in default at St Augustine, and apprehensive of the
prejudice which both Nations may sustain, if by mishap the former
should be the case.
I entreat Your Excellency, therefore, to have the goodness, in
consideration of the foregoing, to let me know, if you have any in-
telligence of the Orders being actually or probably in St Augustine,
and in the contrary case, if Your Excellency thinks the transmission of
this Package necessary, what means are at your command for carrying
it into effect, or to what other mode of proceeding recourse is to be had.
God preserve Your Excellency many Years.
(Signed) JOSE CALLAVA Col Commg West Florida
and Commissary under the Treaty for its delivery.
HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL JACKSON.
ROBERT BUTLER TO TRUEMAN CROSS 75
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C.”)
No 16. St AUGUSTINE June 22nd 1821
SIR I have selected you as a proper person to receive and receipt
for the Archives which relate to the sovreignty of this province as
comprized in the 2* Article of the late treaty between the U. States &
Spain—Those relating to the property of individuals will not be
demanded as they are still a matter of discussion, between the com-
missioners. You will therefore call on his Excellency don Jose Cop-
pinger Gov' & Comm' who will authorize a person to deliver the docu-
ments to you; a copy of your receipt will be submitted with the
documents when received.”
(Signed) ROBERT BUTLER. U. S. Commissioner.
MAJOR T. CROSS. U.S. Army.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A.S.P., Misc. II, 883.
" On the same day a similar letter (No. 17) was sent to Lt. Thomas J. Baird
authorizing him to receive the records pertaining to the public lands. It is
printed ibid.



86 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER 78
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C.”)
No 18. S* AUGUSTINE June 22nd 1821.
SIR. Before answering the particulars of your note of yesterday,”
I beg leave to inform you that I have given to Major Cross and Lieut
Baird the necessary orders as contemplated in your letter of the 19*
and they will wait on your Excellency accordingly. In answering
that part of your note aforesaid which relates to the Archives or
records of individual property, I take for granted that we understood
each other in that respect, fully in our conference yesterday, and will
remark accordingly, that as there appears some doubts on your part,
you are desirous to await the decision of the Cap' Gen' of Cuba
on the subject, at the same time you are disposed to give me an
official assurance that they shall not be removed from the province
until such decision is received. Your motives cannot be otherwise
than approved on my part, and as the Adeline Schooner will return to
this port from the Havana, a favorable opportunity offers for the
conveyance of the Cap' Gen' answer. You will permit me to hope
that you will embody my sentiments as expressed to you on that
subject in your letter to the Cap' Gen' as I deem it of the utmost
importance for the security of the titles to the property owned by the
inhabitants of this province, that the only evidence (which is the
records) that will be recognized by my government should remain a
permanent basis of security to them in their posession. I will now
take up the subject of your Excellencys note of yesterday—and will
inform you that the Sloop Endeavor of 40 tons has been procured for
the purpose of affording additional accomodations to the families of
the officers, and also to transport the ammunition and stores contem-
plated by our mutual understanding, and which I have deemed suffi-
cient from the official estimate furnished me by your aid de Camp, and
which I had the honor at your request, to send you yesterday for
examination. The Cap' of this vessel will be instructed to report to
you early on tomorrow and take your orders. Enclosed your Excº
will find an estimate of the provisions to be furnished on my part
embracing also their kinds and component parts, which will afford
you the information desired. You will also receive a memoranda of
the accomodations afforded by the transports,” and I am persuaded
78 Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
79 Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 883.
* Present (No. 15) stating that he will begin his part in the embarkation on the
following day. Coppinger further stated that there would be no duty charged at
St. Augustine on the American vessels carrying the Spanish to Havana but he
could give no assurances regarding the latter port. He wished to be informed
what kind and quantity of provisions would compose the rations to be furnished.
The letter is printed ibid., p. 882.
* Roth the estimate and the memoranda are present but not here reproduced.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 87
that you will discover the propiety of placing the military officers who
have families on board the Meteor, as the accomodations are entirely
private, each stateroom having a Venitian door, and unconnected
with each other. The Cabin accomodations of the Sloop also afford
much convenience, as you will readily perceive. As you were pleased
to express yourself satisfied with these accomodations in our conversa-
tion yesterday I shall be gratified to know that you continue so. It
may be of some importance to the officer commanding the U.S. convoy
to have completed at an early day the arrangements necessary for the
government of the fleet. I hope you will afford the information on
that head as soon as possible. After expressing my thanks for the
exertions you are daily making to facilitate my wishes, I conclude
with a hope that you will make a request of the Cap' Gen' that the
transports shall enter Havana, and disembark free of duties.
(Signed.) ROBT BUTLER. U. S. Commissioner.
H. E. GOV* COPPINGER.
GOVERNOR COPPINGER TO ROBERT BUTLER 82
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C *]
Translation Nº. 19. ST AUGUSTINE June 23rd 1821.
In answer to your esteemed note of yesterday, assuring Y. E. as I
mentioned in my letter of the 19* that until I received the answer of
my government on the doubts arising on the delivery of the public
Archives relating to the individual property of the inhabitants of this
province and on which I have on this date wrote for information, they
shall not be removed from this place and they shall remain precisely
as they are. I shall likewise remain here untill this point is decided as
well as that on the Artillery, on which I have made my report and in
the mean time I will have formed an exact inventory of the documents
contained in those Archives—I will inform H. E. the Cap" Gen' of
Cuba, of the sentiments Y. E. has expressed respecting the rights of
the inhabitants holding property here; and I will likewise lay before
him the question embraced in the last paragraph of Y. E. letter:—
Whether the American transports entering the port of Havana, shall
be free of duties. I have noted the object to which your E has destined
the Sloop endeavor, and will give orders that her loading shall be
entered on as soon as possible; but the article of Powder will be re-
served until the last moment in order to diminish the danger of acci-
dents, and for the same reason it appears to me a matter of prudence
that no other person should be entered on board of her than the
necessary crew—and that the families of the civil officers may not
thereby be cramped in their accomodations, I will distribute them in
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 884, and For. Rels., iv, 797.



88 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
the vessels freighted on my part for the transportation of the Cannon,
bombs &c. if Y.E will have the goodness to cause them to be supplied
with the rations &c for the Voyage; and with this veiw I will give you
timely notice of the distribution I make—The conveniences of the
Meteor will be appropriated to the military but as we have seperately
agreed the colored troops will be shiped in the transports I have
freighted and for which I hope Y. E. will be pleased to order rations
to be in readiness for delivery according to advice I shall communicate
in proper time. I appreciate the Statement that accompanied your
letter for my information, and adverting to that of rations, which is
calculated for a voyage of twenty days Y. E. will pardon my making
the observation, that in the present season of the year they frequently
extended to thirty days, and more. Experience afford no example of
vessels having to return here after being twenty five days at sea; and
for this very reason the packet Schooner of this Government Bar-
barita, when sailing to the Havana in these months, is supplied with
rations for forty days—I have conceived it proper to state these
circumstances for Y. E. information. Annexed is a statement of the
vessels for which I have solicited convoy and which I transmit for the
purpose Y. E has expressed—and I have much pleasure in assuring
you of my particular respect and consideration—God preserve Y. E.
many years.”
JOSE COPPINGER
By order of H. E. Don Jose Coppinger—GEO J. F. CLARKE
H E. ROBERT BUTLER. U. S. Comº
Statement of the vessels freighted by the Spanish government of
this place for the transportation of the Cannons, balls bombs, and
grape shot, to be removed to the Havana; and for which convoy is
requested.
American Schooner Adeline Capt. I. Israel
Do Do Florida “ Charles Johnston
Do Do Alexander “ Silas Rogers
(Signed) JOSE COPPINGER.
Sº AUGUSTINE E. Florida, 23” June 1821.
* Answered June 26, 1821 (No. 20), with satisfaction that the arrangements
are going forward so happily. The letter is printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 885.
See post, p. 102.
:



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 89
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO. JAMES G.
FORBES 85
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI: C)
MANUELS June 24* 1821.-10 o'clock A. M.
SIR/ I have this moment received a second letter from Don Jose
Callava Governor of Pensacola of the 22* instant*—This letter is
on the subject of a despatch under cover to the Governor of East
Florida, brought by Don Alva from the Havana.
In your letter to me of the 9” instant,” you apprize me of your
arrival at Pensacola “in company with Don Alva the Spanish Com-
missary for the delivery of the two Provinces.” The Governor in his
letter to me of the 10” inst,” apprizes me of his receipt of orders for
the delivery of West Florida and its dependencies and his appoint-
ment as Commissioner for the delivery of the same. And in his letter
of the 22* instant, the Governor states distinctly that Don Alva has
no authority but was merely the bearer of the despatches to him—
In your letter to me of the 21* instant,” you style Don Alva “the
Spanish despatch Bearer.” In your letter of the 8* instant to the
Secretary of State of the United States,” John Q. Adams, transmitted
through me and to which by your letter of 9” instant I was referred;
you advise him of the sailing of the United States vessel, the Non
Such, with Don Aredondo bearer of the order for the delivery of the
Province of East Florida, and that Don Alva your Colleague was the
sole Commissioner for its delivery.
From these contradictions, and Don Alva's not having reported
himself upon his arrival officially either to the Governor of Pensacola
or myself; I have to call on you for a report of the arrangements made
by you with the Captain General and Governor of Cuba and the
Floridas that inclined you to require Captain Reid of the Hornet to
order the United States vessel, the Non Such to sail for St Augustine,
and what Personage, and what orders and to whom directed, were to
go in said vessel the Non Such, by your stipulations, with the Captain
General, Governor of Cuba and the Floridas.
From the tenor of the Governor's second letter of the 22* instant,
your report on this subject becomes necessary and that I should be
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.
* Ante, p. 84. The “first” letter of this date is in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers,
VI) and printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 74–76.
* Loc. cit., not printed.
* Loc. cit., printed, Bassett, op. cit., p. 66–87.
* Ante, p. 83.
* Not found. See ante, p. 61.



90 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
furnished with it without delay. You will therefore transmit it as
early as possible.”
Your most Obdt Servt
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
COL JA" G. FORBES Commissary and Agent under the Treaty.
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO GOVERNOR
CALLAVA*
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI:C)
MANUEL's 25* June 1821,
SIR/ I have, but a few minutes since, received your second letter of
the 22* instant *—Col Forbes the United States Agent, had instruc-
tions from his Government to arrange with the Capt" General of the
Cuba's, the mode of transmitting from the Havana, the Royal Order,
to the Spanish Commandants or Commissioners for the delivery of the
respective Provinces of East and West Florida to the United States
Agents authorized to receive them.
I have been impressed with the belief that under these instructions,
Col. Forbes sailed to Pensacola in the United States Sloop of War
Hornet, accompanied with Don Alva the bearer of despatches to Your
Excellency, and that at the same time the United States Gun vessel,
Non Such was despatched for St Augustine with Don Aredondo, the
bearer of the necessary orders to the Governor of East Florida for the
delivery of that Province. In consequence of your polite letter, I
have this day called upon Col. Forbes for an unequivocal report on
this subject,” and should it be made to appear in the least doubtful
whether the Capt. General of Cuba's order has been transmitted to
the Governor of East Florida, I will then endeavor to concert with you
some arrangements for the safe conveyance of the Package, committed
to the charge of Don Alva.
I have no means at my command at present for transmitting des—
patches to St Augustine, but will probably charter a suitable vessel to
convey a Messenger to that place, so soon as a definite day is agreed
upon for the delivery of West Florida. By this conveyance, should
one be obtained, any despatches you may wish to transmit will be safe,
or any Messenger you wish to send will be accommodated.
I remain with great respect. Your most Obdt Servt.
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
HIS EXCELLENCY DON JOSE CALLAVA Governor of West Florida
and Commissioner under the Treaty for its cession.
* Answered post, p. 95.
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Sec. of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.
* Ante, p. 84.
* Supra. Forbes' report is post, p. 95.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 91
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO WILLIAM
G. D. WORTHINGTON - -
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M)
fifteen miles from Pensacola MANUELS 25* June 1821
SIR, The President having appointed you to be Secretary in and for
East Florida with the exception of that part which lies westward of
the Cape, to reside at St. Augustine,” and it not being possible for me
to attend personally to the duties assigned me as Governor, of East
and West Florida; I have thought proper to give you all the powers,
heretofore exercised by the Govt of East Florida over the same; sub-
ject to such limitations as are specified in the commission vesting you,
and to my instructions from the President of the United States, a part
of which are contained in my third commission * from him, a copy of
which is enclosed for your Government—Enclosed also, is a copy of a
letter from the Secretary of State, Mº Adams, of date 22nd of May
1821,” and an extract of a letter from him of date 23" of May 1821,”
for your instruction and Government. I would send you the act of
Congress of the 3° of March 1821; * but I have but one copy, and you
will find it in the newspapers—by which you will also be regulated—
From the tenor of my Commission, and the extract from the Secre-
taries letter of May 23" which has been noticed as enclosed; It appears
that all officers in the Territories not appointed by the President, are
to be appointed and distributed by me. The President not having
appointed a clerk for the court of the U States for the District of East
Florida, it follows that that clerk is to be appointed by me; when you
see the Judge you will confer with him on the subject, and if he is not
specially instructed to appoint a clerk, you will appoint and com-
mission one for his court. I enclose you an application, made to me
by the Honble John H. Eaton, for a M. Sevier, for your consideration.
I leave to your discretion and judgement the appointment and
suspension of all officers within the Territory assigned to you, which
the public good may seem to you require, with the exception always
of such as may be appointed by the President, reporting promptly the
circumstances and your proceedings therein to me.
Reports relative to the actual state of the Government of the Terri-
tory assigned to you, with such alterations as you may think adviseable;
you will make to me without delay, in order that you may receive
further instructions respecting the same; and also all other information
which you may think will tend to promote the interest and happiness
* Arte, p. 44.
* Ante, p. 18.
* Ante, p. 50.
* Ante, p. 57.
* Ante, p. 5.



92 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
of the people of Florida, you will communicate to me, as being com-
prised within the duties set forth in my third commission—to which
you are particularly referred"—
I am Sir, with great respect Yº Mo Obt Servant.
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
WILLIAM G D WoRTHINGTON Secretary of East Florida
GEORGE M. BROOKE TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:ALS)
CAMP AT MANUELS 15 Miles from Pensacola
25th June 1821.
SIR For the information of the War Dept I have the honor to
inform you, that the 4* Regt. of Infty, and late Rootes * company
of Arty under my command, took up the line of march, on the 14"
inst from Montpelier, for Pensacola. On our arrival at this place,
we understood that the Spanish Governor, would not be enabled to
Deliver the province for some time (probably from the 1* to the 10*
July), and to prevent all difficulties, which might occur between the
soldiers of the two nations, it has been deemed advisable to remain
at this spot, til the moment of positive occupation of the Town and
Barrancas.”
I have also to state, that Lieut Slaughter “ of the 4", with a small
guard has been left at Cantonement Montpelier, for the purpose of
forwarding the public property, at that place, by the public vessells,
which will be ordered round as soon as they return from St Marks.
This officer, has also, been directed, to remain at Montpelier, for the
preservation, of the public buildings, (which are valuable, and will
command a handsome price, if sold) until the pleasure of the War
Dept shall be made known, on that subject.
I have the Honor to be very respectfully Yr: mo: obt: Servt:
GEO. M. BROOKE Col. U S A Comg E. S. 8* M. D.
To. THE ADJUTANT GENL. War Dept.
[Addressed] To. The Adjutant Genls Office War Dept Washington
City D. C. on Service [Postmarked] Tensaw A 1* July Free
1 This instruction in effect constituted Worthington as Acting Governor of
East Florida; see also additional commission, post, p. 104. See also post, p. 99.
2 Capt. Chester Root.
* Barrancas was the old Spanish fort on the north side of the harbor nine miles
southwest of Pensacola. The full Spanish name was San Carlos de Barrancas;
under the Americans it became shortened to Fort Barrancas (Stanley Faye,
“Spanish Fortifications of Pensacola, 1698–1763,” Fla. Hist. Quar., xx (Oct. 1941],
151–168).
* Presumably Lee Slaughter.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 93
[Endorsed] Camp. near Pensacola 25 June 1821 Col. Geo. M. Brooke
4 Infy Reports the 4 Inf with late Roots Compy Arty to have taken
up the march for Pensacola. Lieut Slaughter has been left at
Montpelier to forward the public property & to preserve the public
buildings. July 23 1821
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.ALS)
PENSACOLA 25th June 1821.
SIR I had the honor of acquainting you on the 9th instant" of my
arrival here on that day and of my having given immediate notice
by express to General Jackson at Montpelier and instantly after,
explained as p my letter of 10th instant (Copy herewith *) to Governor
Callava the digression of the Captain General in giving an order to
him to deliver the province of West Florida to me, while that for
East Florida was as it ought to be to the constituted authority of the
U. S. to which he very promptly returned an answer also enclosed ?
by which he recognized General Jackson as that authority—
This was the more necessary as the General might otherwise have
construed my acquiescence in such an order as an improper assumption
on my part He has however done me the justice of attributing my
Conduct to the proper motive, that of avoiding the delay to which
the smallest objection on my part to the order would have subjected
our Government, if made at that moment on the eve of Sº Ferdinand
and other holydays
I took an early opportunity of assigning to the General my reasons
and added that under such circumstances rather than submit to a
farther delay I would have preferred embarking with the semblance
of an order for a Country virtually ceded on the 22” February
considering that form must yield to substance and that such an order
in the General's hands would command prompt and general Com-
pliance
The important subject of the orders for possession having been
thus disposed of to the satisfaction I hope of the departm" as well as
that of General Jackson, it becomes my duty, Sir, to return to the
Archives, which I considered as secondary from embracing more
particularly the interests of Spanish Grantees, which the Government
of the U. S. feel disposed to protect only upon it's established prin-
ciples of Justice
* Ante, p. 64.
* Present.
* Copy present.



94 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
From the Correspondence with the Governor of Cuba" which I had
the honor of submitting to you, it would have been perceived that
as long as the plea of assorting and preparing the Archives was left
open, the road to delay became more trodden and weeks might have
succeeded others without any other result than the one which is
known to you—It had been insinuated to me that the loss of certain
papers taken on the 8* September 1818 by a patriot privateer from
the American Schooner Peggy having on board Governor Massot”
from Pensacola, was considered as convenient only to some of the
public Acountants now presumption affords grounds that their
detraction has been extended to other objects— -
I had heard that Capt" Pintado" the Surveyor of West Florida was
in possession of several plans relating to that province and called upon
him to ascertain their importance, but after several interviews, in
which more art and mystery than Candor were exhibited on his part,
I found that he considered the papers as his private property, and told
the Governor so, and that if I wanted them for our Government, they
must be paid for, at a price which he would not name & which were
not in my opinion worth paying for as he observed that a Surveyor
in New Orleans had made $20,000 for those of Louis”
I have ascertained that he has been most liberally paid for his
public services by grants of Land & Water Lots which his plans
demonstrate in too glaring Colors
* Forbes arrived in Havana on Apr. 22, 1821 and reached Pensacola with the
orders for the delivery of the province on June 9. His correspondence with
Governor General Nicholas Mahy of Cuba and with the Secretary of State
relative to those orders and to the unsuccessful efforts he made to recover archives
of the Floridas taken to Havana by Spanish officials is largely published in Senate
Doc. No. 1, 17 Cong., 1 sess. and in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 740, et seq. A few
other letters are found in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v and VI), and a letter of Mar.
22, 1821 in NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xviii). Copies of these letters are also in
NA (SD, Fla. Archives, Record Bk. 2). Forbes was one of a series of agents
who were sent to Cuba to recover the Spanish archives of Florida and Louisiana.
See Andrew J. Hanna, “Diplomatic Missions of the United States to Cuba to
Secure the Spanish Archives of Florida,” in A. Curtis Wilgus, (ed.), Hispanic
American Essays; a Memorial to James Alexander Robertson (Chapel Hill, 1942),
pp. 208–233; U. S. National Archives, List of Documents Relating to Special
Agents of the Department of State 1789–1906, comp. by Natalia Summers (Wash-
ington, 1951).
* José Masot.
10 Wincente Sebastian Pintado, appointed surveyor general of West Florida in
1805 (Joseph M. White, A New Collection of Laws, Charters and Local Ordinances
of the Governments of Great Britain, France and Spain, Relating to the Concessions
of Land in Their Respective Colonies, Philadelphia, 1939, 2 vols., II, 339).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 95
I am with the greatest respect Sir Your most Obed & very faithful
Servant
JAMES G. FORBES
THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
|Endorsed James G. Forbes—Ack"" recº 24 Sep.
JAMES G. FORBES TO COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR
JACKSON 12
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vi-C]
PENSACOLA 25 June 1821.
SIR. Captain Call did me the honor of handing to me on the after-
noon of yesterday and in the evening Your Excellency's letters of
23** 24” and instant,” in reply I beg leave to state,
That on my first interview with the Captain General of Cuba &",
I was told, that I should have prompt despatch, and be the sole
bearer of the orders to the Governors of the Floridas respectively,
who were to be Commissioners for their delivery.
Three weeks afterwards I received a note from the Captain General
under date of 16** May (now enclosed), notifying me of Don Pedro De
Alba's being charged with the Despatches to that effect, and requiring
any aid necessary for that purpose.
Upon my repeatedly urging the Capt General, to give me at once,
the order for East Florida, that I might send it there by an Officer
from the Hornet, in some vessel bound North, which I had in view to
engage, I was told, that he would despatch it by a Spanish Merchant-
man offered to him, I objected to this mode of conveyance as quite
inexpedient; while this negotiation was pending the United States
Schooner Non Such arrived and presented a desirable conveyance
which I offered to the Governor, when he appointed contrary to my
expectation, Don Aredondo the Auditor of War to proceed with said
Order, of which he notified me by letter of 26* May,” also enclosed.
In my despatch of 9th instant to the Secretary of State,” I said
that upon farther conversation with Don Alba, I find that he alone
is charged with the delivery of East Florida, but this does not appear
to have any other foundation than his assertion, which is not sup-
ported, by reference to his letter of Appointment shewn to me since
Your Excellency suggested a doubt, and from which, I styled him in
my note the Despatch Bearer only.
* Acknowledged post, p. 213.
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Sec. of State, July 30, 1821, post, p. 137.
* Not found.
“Ante, p. 89.
* Present but not here reproduced.
"Ante, p. 64.



96 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Thus, I hope, that Your Excellency will perceive from this exposition
and its enclosures that the Public service will not sustain any injury
from the misapprehension induced by Don Alba's assertion or the
digressions of the Captain General.
I beg leave also to refer to Captain Call for a conversation had with
him on this subject and to remain with much respect—
Your Excellency's most Obdt Humb Servt.
(Signed) JAMES G. FORBES
a Commissary and Agent U. States under the Florida Treaty.
TO HIS EXCELLENCY MAJOR GENERAL A. JACKSON. Governor of
the Floridas.
[Enclosure]
Captain General Mahy to James G. Forbes
(Translation) HAVANA 16th May 1821.
SIR/ I am apprized of the Credentials which you presented me from
James Monroe, President of the United States of America dated at
Washington on the 14* March of the present year, containing the
Second Article of the Treaty of Amity, settlement of differences and
limits, concluded on the 22" of February, 1819, between said United
States and His Catholic Majesty; and that in virtue of the Royal
Order of His Catholic Majesty for the due execution of the terms
stipulated being delivered by His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to be transmitted to me, said President has authorized
you as Agent and Commissary of the same United States to deliver
to me the Royal order referred to, which I have received, in order that
I may settle and concert with you, conformably to the annexed
instructions which have been committed to you, about the execution
of the above mentioned stipulations, and that the respective docu-
ments and Archives with every thing relating to them as expressed
in the credentials aforesaid, may be delivered to you by me and by
all others who may be in possession of them.
Relatively to this matter, and to the prescription of the 2* Article,
I enclose you a Copy of the Royal Order communicated to this Gov-
ernment and Captaincy General on the 12* September 1783 by the
then Minister of Indian Affairs of His Catholic Majesty and by the
Count de Aranda at Versailles on the 19* of the same month and year,
the day of the Exchange of Ratification between their Catholic and
Brittanic Majesties; that Royal Order containing the 5*, 7”, and
10* Articles of the definitive Treaty of Peace, concluded at said
Versailles on the 3" day of Said September, and being the authentic
document which has been found in this Archive relative to His
Catholic Majesty's property in the Floridas, to which the above 2**
Article in the Treaty for their cession refers.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 97
In the Year 1819 there were transmitted to this place from West
Florida sundry boxes of papers from that Archive, which were in
disorder and without indexes; it is therefore an operation requiring
some time, to examine if those papers include any other documents
relative to the property in question; this however will in time be
ascertained.
With regard to East Florida, where all its Archives ought to be
found, I send a letter to the Governor, to the end that, being charged by
me with the important commission of making a formal delivery to
you of that Province, he may make a similar delivery of the docu-
ments relative to its property; I give the same instructions to the
Commandant of West Florida who is equally charged with the afore-
said commission relatively to that Province.
I must apprize you in fine that as Don Pedro de Alva, Post Master
in Pensacola, and Comptroller of its Military Hospital, is at this time
on his return to that destination, I charge him from the confidence
which he merits I should place in him, with conveying the duplicate
Orders for the delivery of West Florida to the hands of its Com-
mandant; I further give him in charge to proceed thence with the
Orders to East Florida, and there execute the same commission.
I bring this to your knowledge with a view to the assistance which
it may be necessary for you to furnish him in the discharge of his
functions.
God preserve You many Years.
(Signed) NICHOLAS MAHY.
Mr JAS. G. FORBES.
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO ROBERT
BUTLER
[LC: Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M]
MANUELS 15 Miles from Pensacola 26* of June 1821
Co! ROBERT BUTLER
SIR, I have received your letter of the 20" ultimo,” and it affords
me great pleasure to be informed of you safe arrival at Fernandina
and your preparation to visit the Governor of East Florida—
From the date of the sailing of the U States vessel the Non-Such
from the Havanna to St Augustine, with Don Aredondo bearer of the
order of the Captain General and Governor of Cuba to the Governor
of East Florida for the delivery of the same—she could not have
reached St Augustine before the 13 instant. She was to sail from the
Havanna the day after the Hornet sailed from thence to Pensacola
and the Hornet only arrived on the evening of the 9” instant, since
17 LC (Jackson Papers, Vol. 59).
301867–57—8



98 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
which I have not lost a moment in preparation for the possession of
the country ceded. I would have been in possession by this time
had it not been for the unfortunate loss of one of our Transports, and
the unfavorable weather which has detained the vessel since chartered
at Orleans and the transport sent for the garrison of St Marks; as
soon as they arrive possession will be had.—I hope my two letters by
mail have reached you—they will have advised you of the causes and
reasons, why I did not communicate to you by express at a more
early day then the present.
The want of a vessel to transport Co" Gadsden has detained him
some time to my great regret—He will give you a copy of my com-
mission authorising me to take possession of the country ceded, with
the powers to appoint others under me; * this may become necessary,
because of Co' Forbes having been viewed by the Captain General,
the Commissioner to receive East Florida, and from a fear that Gen.'
Gaines may not have committed the copy to you, which was fur-
nished him. From Co' Gadsden you will also receive Blanks signed
by me to be filled with such sums or bills on the Department of State,
as may be necessary to cover the expense of taking possession of that
part of the country ceded—You will receive the Proclamations neces-
sary to be made public on receiving possession of the country, which
you will promulgate as soon as you receive the country, or if in
possession as soon as you receive them. I send by Co' Gadsden a
form of a Process verbal which will be proper and necessary to be
signed by the Commissary of Spain appointed to deliver the country,
and yourself: to which it will be necessary to add after islands “in-
cluding all the Tortugas,” that thereafter no dispute may arise with
regard to the right to them—You will receive also the form of an
agreement entered into preparatory to the delivery of the country,
which if you receive in time will be well for you to adopt, that we may
have all things uniform in this transaction.
In my last I informed you that some difficulties had arisen with
respect to the Artillery appertaining to the Fortifications ceded—You
will receive information of the course pursued by me here, and acceded
to by the Governor of Pensacola, which it will be proper for you to
adopt if Co' Gadsden reaches you in time—
Finding that the President of the United States has appointed a
Secretary for East as well as West Florida, (as it appears from in-
structions) to aid me in the Government of the whole, and to keep
up the same distinction which existed under the Spanish Government;
* Gadsden left for St. Augustine with the papers in question (including Jack-
son's commission to Worthington) on July 1, according to Jackson to Butler,
July 27, 1821 (LC, Jackson Papers, Letters and Orders, Vol. M). See post, p. 104.
Gadsden arrived at St. Augustine July 10 (post, p. 115).
s
º:



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 99
I have thought proper by Commission to clothe M* Worthington "
with all the powers exercised by the Governor of East Florida under
the rule of Spain—Co' Gadsden is the bearer of this commission and
all the necessary instructions to him on this important subject: When
you have received the Archives with the possession of the country
and proclaimed the same, you will hand over to M' Worthington the
commission and instructions with the Archives taking his receipt for
the same, and charge him with the administration of the Government
as confided to him by me—Having performed this with all the other
duties confided to you by me—having settled all public accounts and
taken duplicate receipts for the same; you will repair to Pensacola in
the vessel that carries Co' Gadsden to you, or by land, and make a
report to me of all the matters and things over which you have had
charge; that agreeably to my instructions I may make a report to my
Government, and close all accounts that have accrued in taking
possession of and occupying the Floridas—
I am with great respect Your Most Obt Servant
(Signq, ANDREW JACKSON
Note, A few lines relative to Co' Butlers furlough and the situation
of his and Gen' J” family are not inserted, as they relate not to Co.'
B" instructions of the occupancy of E Florida—
CO' ROBERT BUTLER Provisional Commissioner East Florida
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX”)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 27 June 1821
ANDREW JACKSON Esquire Governor of Florida
SIR I have had the honour of receiving your Letters of 24 April "
1.” 7.* 19.” 23 * and 30 May, * with their enclosures.
The conduct of the Governor and Captain General of the Island of
Cuba, in delaying without any apparent satisfactory reason, the
in Ante, p. 91.
* Printed also in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 754.
* Ante, p. 36.
* Ante, p. 38.
* Ante, p. 41. A second letter to the Secretary of State on the same date (NA,
loc cit.) is printed A. S. P., op. cit., p. 758, and Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 53.
* NA (loc. cit.); LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M), printed A. S.
P., op. cit., p. 760.
** Not found. This acknowledgement may be intended for Jackson's letter of
May 21, 1821 which is in NA (loc. cit.) and LC (Jackson Papers). It is printed
A. S. P., op. cit., p. 760, and Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 57.
*NA (loc. cit.), printed ibid., p. 762 and Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 61-62.



100 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
delivery of the orders to the Governors of East & West Florida, for the
evacuation of those Provinces, by the Officers and Troops of Spain and
in evading the delivery of all of the Archives in his possession, and
which by a stipulation of the Treaty were to be given up, appears to
have been very exceptionable.
The President has been disposed to make every allowance for the
dilatory character of all transactions habitual to the officers of the
Spanish Government. On receiving your Letter of the 19. May; he
had thought it would be necessary to take measures on a presumption
that the unwaritable delays of the Governor of Cuba would be still
continued; which under other circumstances it would be very desirable
to avoid—While these measures however were under consideration, in-
tillegence was received from Col. Forbes, that he had at length received
the orders for the delivery of the two Provinces, and immediately
afterwards, that he had actually sailed from the Havanna on the 30
ult" for Pensacola. As the order to the Governor of St Augustine, had
been dispatched on the same day, and that order was received by him
of the 7. instant, we are in daily expectation of receiving the informa-
tion, that that place has been delivered up to Col Butler, and that the
Spanish Officers and Troops there have embarked for the Havanna.
The tenor of your correspondence with the Governor of Pensacola as
well as the character heretofore known of Governor Callava have led
to the hope and expectation, that he will on receiving the order of
evacuation, manifest all the alacrity for carrying the Treaty into
execution, which has been professed in his Letters—It was therefore,
concluded here that it would be most advisable, to take no step founded
on the supposition that unnecessary delays will be still experienced in
the evacuation of the Floridas, even after the orders for their evacua-
tion shall have been received by the Governors of the respective
Provinces.
Your Letters of the 23 and 30 Ult” have been forwarded to the
President who is in Loudoun; I shall inform you as soon as possible of
his directions on your suggestion of a wish to be furnished with a
Check on the Branch Bank at New Orleans.
I am
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO JOHN G. BIRD
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State, WASHINGTON, 27. June 1821.
JOHN G. BIRD Esquire.
SIR, The President having appointed you Attorney of the United
States for East Florida, with the exception of that part which lies
westward of the Cape, I have the pleasure herewith to transmit your



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 101
Commission,” and to add the expression of my wish, that the appoint-
ment should prove agreeable to you.
In that case it will be necessary for you to repair with all convenient
despatch to Sº Augustine (Pensacola) to enter upon the duties of your
office, there being reason to believe that the Spanish authorities will
have delivered over the actual possession of both the Floridas to
General Jackson before this Communication reaches you; and towards
the organization of the temporary Government it may be important
that the Judiciary Department should be put into operation
immediately.”
I am &c.
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
ALEXANDER. C. W. FANNING TO COMMISSIONER AND
GOVERNOR JACKSON ??
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI: ALS)
FORT ST. MARKS 27. June 1821.
SIR I have the honor to state you that the U. S. troops this day
at 4 ock P. M. received from the Spanish authorities this post, and
that your orders on this subject are fully complied with.
I forward you duplicate receipts for the Fort and also Invoices of
the the Ordnance, Ammunition &c left by the Spaniards here and
which is said to be claimed both by Spain & the U. States—All the
latter articles receipted for are totally unfit for service—
I request that you will despatch one of the public vessels to Fort
Gadsden to transport to this place the two 18 pounders & 2 of six
now there also Ammunition &c.—
I deemed it proper to move from Fº Gadsden all the men that were
able to march except a Lieut & eighteen—as sick left there are about
thirty in number—
I hope you may think proper to direct Col. Arbuckle” to relieve
all the men of this command now at Fort Gadsden
I marched the troops by land and arrived here four days before the
Shields—The Shields not arriving until yesterday was the cause of
the delay—
Pardon me if I again say that we are much in want of a vessel for
the transportation of many important effects and also of the men
that we were compelled to leave at F* Gadsden.
* Ante, p. 49.
* Answered July 9, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v).
* Enclosed in a covering letter of July 30, 1821, from Jackson to the Secretary
of State (post, p. 137).
* Matthew Arbuckle, commanding the Seventh Infantry with headquarters at
Fort Scott, Ga.



102 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I have the honor to be Sir with great respect Yº Ob' Sº
A. C. W. FANNING B. Maj Comde Fort S*Marks
GEN. ANDREW JACKSON Governor of the Floridas Pensacola.
[Addressed] Gen. Andrew Jackson Governor of the Floridas
Pensacola. Service
[Endorsed] Answered 10th July 1821 *—Recd same day—A. J.-
Major Fannings Report of the possession of St Marks—with Genl
Jackson's No 130” July
ABRAHAM BRADLEY, JR., TO JONATHAN S. BEERS
[NA:PO, PMG Let. Bk. Z]
GENERAL POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT June 29, 1821.
J. S. BEERS Esq. P. M. St. Augustine, now at Augusta G.
SIR, In the absence of the P. M. G. I have received your letter of
the 19th.”—I have directed a mail to be sent from St Mary's to St.
Augustine and it is supposed by the Secretary of State that the pos-
session has been delivered, but the fact is not known. It would be
useful therefore to have the Post Office put in immediate operation,
which you perhaps may have done by writing to some acquaintance
there. Blanks, &" will be forwarded to you at that place.—
There is no compensation provided for the P. M. other than a com-
mission on the amount of money passing through his hands.-There
are several instances where Post Masters are specially provided for—
this was done when the post-office funds exceeded its expenses. which
is far from the case at this time—and it is not therefore probable that
any extra allowance will be made *
Yours &"
A. B. jr.
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER 84
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C as
No 22. St AUGUSTINE June 29th 1821
SIR I have received Y. E. note of yesterday,” in which you decline
for the present appointing a day for the exchange of flags. And
desiring that the Captains of the vessels I have freighted to transport
si Post, p. 109.
* Not found. The letters received file of the Post Office Department for this
period was destroyed by fire on Dec. 15, 1836. See House Rep. No. 134, 24
Cong., 2 sess., and the Washington Daily National Intelligencer, Dec. 16, 1836.
* See post, p. 197.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 886.
* Present, No. 21, and printed ibid., p. 885.
*



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 103
the Stores should be required to come forward to receive their loading
as that part of the business was delayd; I deem it necessary to remark
to Y. E. that the Sloop Endeavour was procured for that purpose, and
required to report for your orders—And in a conversation had with
you some days since you were pleased to remark, that should this
vessel not be sufficient to transport those stores, you would dispose of
the overplus in your vessels. In a subsequent conversation you were
pleased to signify that one vessel would not be sufficient and alledging
that no passengers would go on board of the Endeavor in consequence
of her loading being principally powder, upon which I informed you
that I would procure another vessel to take the ballance of the stores
& to accomodate passengers—I have procured the promised vessel and
she will be ready to receive her freight early in the morning. You are
pleased to inform me that the shipment of the Artillery altho pro-
gressing as fast as possible might be delayed by a change of weather;
And as I observe also, that but few of your balls &c have been put on
board of your vessels, I feel some what at a loss to understand, how
any delay could have arisen on my part—I have deemed the foregoing
observations necessary to exonerate me from any imputation of neglect
of duty on the part of my government, which your note is calculated
to warrant. In answer to that part of Y. E. note which relates to the
allowance of a gratuity of thirty days at two dollars per day, on the
part of your government to the officers for their passage to the Havana,
I can only remark that my instructions confine me to the furnishing
provisions under certain conditions; and that those provisions will be
placed in the possession of Your Commissary, subject to such disposition
as you may think proper to make of them. I appreciate Y. Es promise
to give me as early as possible the information required as to the day
for the exchange of flags, and will remark in conclusion, that the trans-
port has again arrived off this harbor with the troops destined to
occupy this province *
Irenew to Y. E. my sentiments of great Consideration and personal
esteem
ROBT BUTLER
H. E. DON JOSE COPPINGER Gov' & Comm”
* Answered, June 30, 1821 (No. 23), absolving Butler from any blame in the
delay and setting the 8 or 10 of July as the day for making the transfer of the
province (printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 886). Butler replied on July 2 (No. 24)
expressing his pleasure that the date had been set for the exchange of flags (printed
ibid., p. 887). Coppinger wrote in answer to this letter on July 3 (No. 25) that
he would make an effort to shorten the time until the province could be transferred.
He asked clarification as to the disposition of provisions provided in excess to
actual needs for the voyage (printed ibid.). Part of Butler's letter of July 5
(No. 28) was in reply. He stated that the surplus provisions could not be claimed
by the United States and would remain subject to the decision of the two govern-
ments (printed ibid., p. 888). See post, p. 105.



104 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PER S
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON AS
ACTING GOVERNOR OF EAST FLORIDA38
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. Ml
[July 1, 1821]
ANDREW JACKSON, Governor of Florida.
To all to whom these Presents shall come greeting.
Whereas, the Congress of the United States, by an act passed on
the third day of March, 1821,” did provide, that until the end of the
first session of the next Congress, unless provision be sooner made
for the temporary government of the Territories of East and West
Florida, ceded by Spain to the United States by the Treaty between
the said parties concluded at Washington on the 22" day of February
1819, all the military, civil and judicial powers exercised by the
officers of the existing Government of the Same, shall be vested in
such person and persons and shall be exercised in such manner, as
the President of the United States shall direct, for maintaining the
inhabitants of said territories in the free enjoyment of their liberty;
property, and religion: And Whereas, I, Andrew Jackson, have been
duly appointed to exercise within the said ceded Territories, under
such limitations as have been or may be hereafter prescribed to me
by the President, and by law, all the powers and authorities heretofore
exercised by the Governor and Captain General, and the Intendant
of Cuba, and by the Governors of East and West Florida within the
said Provinces respectively: now Know Ye, that in virtue of the above
powers, I do by these presents appoint William G D Worthington,
to exercise within all that part of the ceded territory and the Islands
adjacent thereto situated to the East of Cape Florida, all the powers
and authorities heretofore exercised by the Governor of East Florida
within the said Territory; and I do empower him the said William
G. D. Worthington, to fulfil and execute the duties of his present
appointment in conformity to such instructions as he may receive
from me, and according to law, and to have and to hold the same
with all its powers and priviliges, until the end of the next session of
Congress, unless provision be sooner made for the temporary govern-
ment of the same, or unless revoked by me: Provided, nevertheless,
and it is the true intent and meaning of these presents, that the said
William G D Worthington, or any person acting under him shall
have no power or authority to lay or collect any new or additional
Taxes, or to grant or confirm to any person or persons whomsoever
any title or claim to land within the same.
* See ante, p. 98, n.
* Ante, p. 5.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 105
Given under my hand and private seal (having no Seal of
Ls office) at the city of Pensacola on the first day of July—A D.
1821, and of the independence of the United States of America
the Forty fifth.
Signd ANDREW JACKSON
By the Governor
R, K, CALL, Acº Secº of W Florida
Countersigned by, Cap" R. KCALL Secretary & Aid de Camp—
Note, A provisional commission of the same tenor and date with
the above, was forwarded to, and to be filled in the name of the
Commd Officer at St Augustine in the event of Mº Worthington's
absence
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR COPPINGER 40
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C 41]
No 26 S*AUGUSTINE July 3rd 1821.
SIR. That a more perfect understanding should exist between us
in relation to the Archives which are embraced in the treaty of cession
and relating to individual property is the object of this communication.
I should upon mature reflection, consider myself wanting in my duty
to the inhabitants of this province, who are about to become citizens
of my government, if I with held any statement in relation to the
Archives, which might lead to the removal of any documents that
would be of importance to their security, and which my government
considers included in the treaty. The following records are deemed
indispensible to this Object. Viz the royal or other orders authorising
the Govº" of this province to issue grants to individuals for land,
lotts, or squares. The evidence of indemnity offered by G. Britain
to her subjects who might leave their property in this province and
retire to her territory after the cession to Spain. The proclamation
of the Spanish authorities calling on those individuals, to come forward
and dispose of their property or peacably occupy it within certain
periods or the same would be confiscated; and the order of confiscation
thereafter. The original records of all grants made in the province
either by his C. M. the Cap" Gen" of Cuba or the governors of this
province respectively. The original records of all trials and decisions
embracing individual property, and the original records relating to
the execution of wills, and administration of estates. The foregoing
explanation is given to shew you, what I am bound to consider as the
Archives relating to individual proper and which are not to be
removed from this place until the decision is had on the subject by
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 887.



106 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
our respective governments; and I request that you will cause the
Cap' Gen' to be furnished with a copy of this communication. I have
the honor to remain with perfect respect & Great Consideration
ROB" BUTLER.
H. E. GOV* COPPINGER
GOVERNOR COPPINGER TO ROBERT BUTLER 42
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.C.”)
Translation Nº. 27. [July 4, 1821]
The note Y. E. was pleased to send me yesterday, in order to point
out which are the records comprehended in the treaty of cession, and
appertaining to private property I have duly examined, and have to
answer; that confining myself to a compliance with the treaty, and
with the orders of my government, their literal sense is the only guide
to my endeavor in the execution; and when any doubts arise I consult
them with that frankness necessary to ascertain my course, and
warrant my responsibility. Thus actuated I early informed Y. E.
with respect to the public archives, or escrivanos office, or records
bearing on private property of the inhabitants of this province;
measures with which Y. E. was pleased to accede It now appears
that Y. E. advance pretensions to other documents, that I am sorry
to say are according to my conception excluded from the delivery—I
do not comprehend the ground on which you step your demand;
therefore, and in order to report to my government by the earliest
opportunity, that it may decide with yours on these points and at
the same time, on those others in question, Y. E. will excuse my not
entering into particular observations on each of these. I have much
pleasure in repeating to Y E my constant esteem—God preserve you
many years.”
JOSE COPPINGER
By order of H. E. GEO J FCLARKE
H. E. ROBERT BUTLER Adjº Gen' & Comº
ST AUGUSTINE July 4* 1821.
DANIEL BRENT TO WILLIAM D. G. WORTHINGTON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xix)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington July 6, 1821
W" G. D. WORTHINGTON Esquire Baltimore
SIR I am directed by the Secretary to acknowledge the receipt
of your Letter to him of the 30 Ult.* and to inform you that an
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 887, and For. Rels., IV, 798.
* Butler replied on July 5, 1821 (No. 28) that he wanted the records to protect
the property rights of the new citizens (printed ibid., Misc., II, 888).
* Not found.
s



FL OR I D A T E R RITOR Y 107
advance of four months Salary will be made to you by this Depart-
ment. You are authorized accordingly to draw upon Mº Fontaine
Maury, of the Department of State, for five hundred Dollars on this
account.
I am moreover instructed by him to State to you, that the arrange-
ments which the President makes at this time concerning the Floridas,
are, and can be but of a temporary nature, to continue till Congress
makes other, and permanent regulations, which will probably be done
at its next Session. In the mean while the President has determined
that your Salary shall be at the rate of 1500 Dollars a year counting
from the date of your Commission.
I am &c
DANIEL BRENT
t-
GOVERNOR COPPINGER TO ROBERT BUTLER 46
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:C 47]
Translation Nº. 31. [July 8, 1821]
Your Excellency will receive herewith the document executed by
the Cap" of the vessels freighted by me,” and requesting convoy of
the U. S. vessel of war. This instrument is according to our under-
standing on this subject, and I hope you will be pleased to pass infor-
mation to James Ramage Esq. Commander of the convoy. I have
made all the arrangements in order to verify the exchange of flags
on the forenoon of the 10” ins", and to that effect my troops will
embark tomorrow, leaving only the guards of the forts, parade, and
magazine, which will be relieved by yours in the time, form, and
number, we have agreed on.
Permit me to request that the provisions for the voyage may be
delivered to the Commissioner I have appointed,” today if possible.
I reiterate to Y. E. my particular consideration and respect.” God
preserve you many years.
JOSE COPPINGER
By order of H. E. GEO: J FCLARKE
H. E. ROBERT BUTLER Comm' of the U. S.
S*AUGUSTINE July 8* 1821.
* Enclosed by Butler to the Sec. of State, July 13, 1821, post, p. 116.
* Printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 889.
* Not present.
* In a letter dated July 6, 1821 (No. 29), Coppinger informed Butler that he
had appointed Don Juan Jose Robles to receive the rations for the voyage (printed
ibid., p. 888). Butler replied on July 8 (No. 30) that Robles had presented
himself (printed ibid., p. 889).
* Answered, July 9, 1821 (No. 32), with a review of last minute details; printed
ibid.



108 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ORDERS REGARDING THE EXCHANGE OF FLAGS AT
PENSACOLA AND BARRANCAS
[LC: Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M)
HEAD QUARTERs, Manuels 10* July 1821
ORDERs, The 4* Reg' of Infantry and the company of Artillery,
under the command of Col George M. Brooke, will take up the line of
march on the morning of the 11* instant and proceed to Galvez
Spring in the vicinity of Pensacola, where they will be encamped and
held in readiness for the occupation of Pensacola and Barrancas in a
moments warning.
No Soldier will be permitted to enter Pensacola unless in company
with a commissioned officer—Order and sobriety must be observed by
the Soldiery—the smallest deviation from the rules of discipline and
subordination will receive the most exemplary punishment: but the
Governor flatters himself that the American soldiers will not degrade
themselves and their country, either by intoxication or any other
irregularity of deportment, whilst taking possession of the ceded
Territory.
Co! Brooke will detail and organise the Garrisons intended for
Pensacola and Barrancas, the former to consist of not less than four
companies of Infantry. The officer detailed for the command and
taking possession of Barrancas, will hold in readiness twenty select
men commanded by a confidential Subaltern to relieve the Spanish
Troops of equal number at Barrancas, where the following ceremonies
will be observed.—At a certain hour hereafter to be made known this
detachment will enter the fortress of Barrancas, where it will find
a Spanish guard of one Lieutenant and Twenty men formed at sup-
ported arms fronting the Flag staff—the United States Troops will
form in front of them with the Flag staff between them—The Spanish
Flag being hoisted, the American Flag will be fastened to the same
Haliards—The American Flag will then ascend and the Spanish Flag
descend, until meeting at half mast—they will remain in that position
until a Spanish salute of twenty-one guns is fired. So soon as the
last gun is fired, the American Flag will ascend to the top of the mast,
and the Spanish Flag will be taken down by the Spanish officer—The
American and Spanish Troops will then salute each other by presenting
arms, and continue at a present until the Spanish officer delivers to the
Officer of the U. States The order of Don Jose Callava the Spanish
commandant for the delivery of the fortress of Barrancas, at which the
Troops will be ordered to shoulder arms—the Spanish Troops are to
withdraw, and those of the U States to remain in possession of the
fortification, and will be prepared to salute their Flag with twenty-five
rounds from the Guns in Battery in said fortification.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 109
Until the foregoing ceremony is concluded the balance of the
American Troops will remain without the Fortification, but to enter
as soon as it is concluded—
Co! Brooke will hold the detachment at Pensacola in readiness to
hoist the American flag on hearing the last gun of the Spanish salute
at Barrancas, and so soon as the process verbal" for the delivery of the
country is signed, the American flag in Pensacola will be hoisted,
and after half mast high, going up, will be saluted with 25 guns—
(Signd, ANDREW JACKSON Governor of the Floridas
-
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO
ALEXANDER. C. W. FANNING
[LC: Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M)
MANUELS 15 miles north of Pensacola. July 10* 1821,
SIR. Your letter of the 27 Ult,” is this moment received, accom-
panied with the receipts, for the Fort of Sº Marks, and the ordnances
Stores appertaining to the Same—They Transport Wessels were
detained on their return by adverse winds they Anchored at the
Barancas on yesterday.
I have this moment ordered that the Shields be forthwith unloaded,
prepared and ordered to Sail for Fort Gadsden to Transport the
Ordnance and Stores, all Public property, and the Garrison now there,
and that Fort Gadsden be evacuated—The Sec. of War by his letter
to me of the 22° March,” Says. that Fort Gadsden is to be evacuated;
and its Garrison is to occupy Sº Marks.”—Therefore the Garrison is
not to be releived but the Fort evacuated, and all public property to be
transferred to St Marks—
The prompt manner in which you have executed my order for the
possession and occupation of Sº Marks, meets and receives my full and
entire approbation With my best wishes for your welfare and happi-
ness, I am Sir with great Respect Your M" Ob. Servº
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
MAJOR A. C. W. FANNING Comº St Marks
* Post, p. 122.
* Ante, p. 101.
* Ante, p. 19.



110 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
PROCLAMATION BY COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR
JACKSON
[Vignoles, Observations upon the Floridas:Pr.”)
[July 10, 1821]
Proclamation. By Major General Andrew Jackson, Governor of the
provinces of the Floridas, exercising the powers of the Captain General
and of the Intendant of the island of Cuba, over the said provinces, and
of the Governors of said provinces, respectively.
Whereas, by the treaty concluded between the United States and
Spain, on the 22d day of February, 1819, and duly ratified, the prov-
inces of the Floridas were ceded by Spain to the United States, and
the possession of the said provinces is now in the United States:
And whereas, the Congress of the United States, on the 3d of March,
in the present year, did enact, that, until the end of the first session of
the seventeenth Congress, unless provision for the temporary govern-
ment of said provinces be sooner made by Congress, all the military,
civil and judicial powers exercised by the officers of the existing gov-
ernment of the said provinces, shall be vested in such persons and shall
be exercised in such manner, as the President of the United States shall
direct, for the maintaining the inhabitants of said territories in the
free enjoyment of their liberty, property and religion: and the Presi-
dent of the United States has, by his commission, bearing date the
10th day of said March,” invested me with all the powers, and charged
me with the several duties, heretofore held and exercised by the Cap-
tain General, Intendant, and Governors aforesaid:
I have, therefore, thought fit to issue my proclamation, making
known the premises, and to declare that the government heretofore
exercised over the said provinces, under the authority of Spain, has
ceased, and that that of the United States of America is established
over the same: that the inhabitants thereof will be incorporated in the
Union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the
principles of the federal constitution, and admitted to the enjoyment
of all the privileges, rights, and immunities, of the citizens of the
United States; that in the mean time they shall be protected in the
free enjoyment of their liberty, property and the religion they profess,
that all laws and municipal regulations which were in existence at the
cessation of the late government, remain in full force: and all civil
officers, charged with their execution, except those whose powers have
been specially vested in me, and except, also, such officers as have
been entrusted with the collection of the revenue, are continued in
* Printed also in Niles' Reg., xx, 353–354. Neither the original MS. text nor a
copy has been found in the official files or elsewhere.
* Ante, p. 9.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 111
their functions during the pleasure of the governor for the time being
or until provision shall otherwise be made.
And I do hereby exhort and enjoin all the inhabitants and other
persons within the said provinces, to be faithful and true in their
allegiance to the United States, and obedient to the laws and authori-
ties of the same, under full assurance that their just rights will be
under the guardianship of the United States, and will be maintained
from all force and violence from without or within.
Given at Pensacola this ſtenth day of July for East Florida, and
seventeenth day of July for West Florida) one thousand eight
hundred and twenty-one.
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON.
By the Governor:
(Signed) R. K. CALL, Acting Secretary of the Floridas.
Saint Augustine, East Florida, July 10, 1821.
By the Governor:
(Signed) ROBERT BUTLER, United States Commissioner.
-
ACT OF TRANSFER OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v: DS ºl
[July 10, 1821]
In the Place of S*Augustine, and on the tenth day of July eighteen
hundred & twenty one, Don José Coppinger, Coronel of the Nationall
Armies, and Commissioner, appointed by his Excellency the Cap"
General of the Island of Cuba to make a formal delivery of this Said
Place & Province of East Florida, to the Governm" of the United
States of America, by virtue of the Treaty of Cession concluded at
Washington on the Twenty Second of February, Eighteen hundred
and Nineteen, & the Royal Schedule of delivery of the Twenty fourth
of October of the last Year, annexed to the Documents mentioned in
the Certificate that form a heading to these Instruments in testimony
thereof, And the Adjutant General of the Southern Division of the
said States, Colonel Don Rob" Butler, duly authorized by the afore-
said Governm' to receive the same, We having had several conferences
in order to carry into effect our respective Commissions, as will appear
by our official Communications, and having received by the latter,
the Documents, Inventories and Plans, appertaining to the Property
and Sovereignty of the Spanish Nation, held in this Province, and in
its adjacent Island depending thereon, With the Sites, Public Squares,
Vacant lands, Public Edifices, Fortifications and other Works not being
private property, and the Same having been preceded by the arrange-
* The official Spanish text is present. The official English version of the trans-
action, reproduced here, has also been printed A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 749–750;
A. S. P., Misc. Affairs, 11, 890; White, New Coll. of Laws, II, 222–223; Charles
B. Vignoles, Observations upon the Floridas (New York, 1823), pp. 168–170.



112 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ments and formalities that, for the greater solemnity of this Important
act they have Judged proper, there has been verified at four o'clock
of the Evening of this day, the compleat and personal delivery of the
Fortifications and all else of this aforesaid Province, to the Com-
missioner, Officers and troops of the United States, and in Conse-
quence thereof having embarked for the Havana the Military and
Civil Officers and Spanish Troops in the American transports provided
for this purpose, the Spanish Authorities having this moment ceased
the exercise of their functions, and those appointed by the American
Governm" having began theirs—Duly noteing, that we have trans-
mitted to our Governments the Doubts ocurring Whether the
Artillery ought to be Comprehended in the Fortifications: and if the
Public Archives relating to private Property ought to remain, and be
delivered to the American Governm" by Virtue of the Cession; and
that there remains in the Fortifications until the aforesaid resolution
is made the Artillery, Munitions and implements, Specified in a parti-
cular Inventory; awaiting on these points and the others appearing in
question in our Correspondence, the Superior decission of our respec-
tive Governm" and Which is to have Whatever may be the result the
most religious compliance at any time that it may arrive, and in Which
the possession that at present appears given Shall not Serve as an
obstacle—In testimony of Which and that this may at all times Serve
as an expresive and formal receipt in this act, We the Subscribing
Commissioners, sign four Instruments of this same tenor in the English
and Spanish Languages at the above mentioned place, and said day
month and year"—
ROBERT BUTLER
José CoPPINGER
In faith whereof I certify that the preceding act was executed in the
presence of the illustrious Ayuntamiento, and various private persons
assembled, and also of various military and naval officers of the United
States of America. St. Augustine, 10th July, 1821*
JUAN DE ENTRALGO
Notary of the Government and Secretary of the Cabildo.
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v LS]
ST AUGUSTINE July 11* 1821.
SIR. The province of East Florida was yesterday, happily de-
livered over and occupied by the authorities of the United States—
* Cf. post, p. 115.
* This paragraph and the remainder of the document is not translated in the
English version in NA (SD, Fla Terr. Papers), it is taken from White, New Coll.
of Laws.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 113
On that morning previous to the delivery I had the satisfaction of
receiving the proclamations of the Governor from Pensacola by Co'
Gadsden: and which were promulgated after the exchange of flags—
The governor informs me that he expected to occupy West Florida
about the 10* ins' should this be the case, it will add to the surprize
which I experienced on receiving his communication, to find the re-
markable coincidence in the manner and issue of our respective duties—
I shall leave this place for Pensacola on the 16** inst: under the
Governors orders, and shall forward you in the meantime a copy of
the correspondence which has ensued during my stay here in the
exercise of my duties.
I consider it proper to apprize you that not one of the civil officers
appointed by the President has yet arrived except the Marshall; this
circumstance renders it encumbent on the officer Cap" J. R. Bell who
will receive the government to appoint temporarily such officers as
will be necessary for the customs. Owing to the non arrival of the
provisions destined to subsist the Spanish troops to the Havana, I
directed a purchase to be made by an assistant Commissary of sub-
sistence, and agreeably to the regulations of that department, he
draws direct on the cheif for the amount; and I shall accompany with
letters of advice.
I shall probably draw for a small amount direct on you to enable
me to pay the accounts which I have personally contracted, and bear
my expences to Pensacola for the final arrangement of my appoint-
ment—From the plans & Inventories which I shall submit to the
Governor, he will be enabled to report to you fully on the subject of
the public property in this quarter. I have succeeded in obtaining
all the cannon which was in battery on the forts, subject however to
the decision of the two governments: I claiming as a right under the
treaty: and Governor Coppinger disclaiming on the part of his
government. The provisions furnished &c are similarly placed in
consequence of the disavowal of the right to the Artillery.
There have been several peices of Artillery removed—Viz feild
Artillery, and those belonging to the Gun boats, but in the Governors
own transports. I shall be much gratified to receive an acknowledg-
ment of the documents by Major Cross, and that my services have
been approved.
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Yr Most Obt Ser”
ROBERT BUTLER
THE HON" JoHN Q. ADAMS.
[Endorsed] Rob" Butler—
801867–57—9



114 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ROBERT BUTLER TO JOHN R. BELL
[LC:Jackson Papers, Vol. 60:LS)
S*AUGUSTINE 11” July 1821
SIR Mº Worthington the Secretary for East Florida: has been
clothed by Gen' Jackson Governor of the Floridas; by a commission
bearing date the 11* day of July 1821,” with all the powers and author-
ities under certain limitations, hitherto exercised by the Spanish
Governor of said Province—Anticipating the probable non arrival of
M* Worthington in East Florida Governor Jackson has deemed it
adviseable to direct that you exercise provisionally the same powers
and authorities, as by reference to your commission” herewith en-
closed will more clearly appear.
The Commission for Mº Worthington with accompanying Docu-
ments" &" are placed in your charge: to be delivered to him on his
arrival at S*Augustine—To the Documents: instructions &“ you are
respectfully refered: as guides to the exercise of the powers provision-
ally conferred on you—
Accompanied are Inventories of the Public Property" in East
Florida ceded under the treaty with Spain & received by me as Ameri-
can Commissioner: as well as the Archives which relate to the Sover-
eignty of that Province solely—
The archives and records which relate to property &" have not been
delivered me by the Spanish Authorities. The temporary disposition
however which has been made of them, is explained by the copies of
the documents agreements,” &" herewith enclosed for your informa-
tion on this subject, as well as others connected with the exercise of
the important powers & authorities delegated you—
You will receipt to me for the Archives & other documents herewith
delivered you and on the arrival of M* Worthington at S*Augustine
you will turn over these written instruments to him: taking his dupli-
cate receipts for the same: one of which you will forward by a safe
conveyance to Gen' Jackson at Pensacola: retaining the other for
your own security—
Having performed this: the powers: Authorities &" exercised under
the provisional Commission from Governor Jackson: will then cease.”—
* Error for July 1; see ante, p. 104.
* Not present. It was issued in the same form as that given to Worthington.
See ante, p. 104.
* For information re these documents, see Bell to Worthington, Aug. 20, 1821,
post, p. 177.
* See post, p. 200.
* See post, p. 123, n.
* See post, p. 175.
º



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 115
I have the honor to be very respectfully Yº Mº Ob Sº
ROBERT BUTLER U: S: Commissioner
CAP* J. R. BELL Comº U. S. Troops S*Augustine
[Endorsed] From Butler Com' to Capt J. R. Bell 1821
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 3:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE July 12* 1821
SIR. I have the honor to report that I have received on the 10th
ins' at 4 o'clock P. M. formal possession of the Province of East
Florida,” and issued Governor Jacksons Proclamation,” which happily
arrived by Colo. Gadsden on that morning—The day was unusually
fine, and the preconcerted arrangements were handsomely executed,
and nothing occurred to disturb the tranquility of the Inhabitants—
I have in obedience to the Orders of the Gov. turned over the
Government to Cap. J. R. Bell sen' officer with the necessary powers,
until the arrival of the Secretary who has been appointed by the
President, when a commission and instructions will be handed him
for the execution of the duties—
The Marshall (Colo Forbes) is the only officer appointed by the
President, who has arrived in this Province.
I regret that I had not informed you in my letter from Amelia
Island,” that the name of the Fort at this place was S*Marks as well
as that in the Gulph of Mexico—as being the reason for wishing to
change it—
I leave this place for Pensacola under the Governors Orders on the
16** ins” by Darien & through the Creek nation—The climate & season
of the year will render it a long, and fatiguing journey; and then I
shall have to obtain leave of absence to remove my family—
I have written to M*Adams” by this conveyance informing him
that I would send on a copy of the correspondence &" which has
occurred in the taking possession of this Province by Maj. Cross, to
whom I beg leave to refer you for minute information—
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Yº M* Ob. St.
ROBERT BUTLER
THE HON” J. C. CALHOUN. Secy of War
[Endorsed] Butler. R. Col' U. S. A. Sº Augustine, 12 July, 1821
relative to his recº possession of East Florida—has turned over govern"
to Capt Bell—&c, &c
* Ante, p. 111.
* Ante, p. 110.
ºf Ante, p. 48.
* Ante, p. 112.



116 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ROBERT BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v.LS)
S* AUGUSTINE East Florida July 13* 1821
SIR I have handed over to Maj Cross for your information a book
containing copies of the official correspondence which resulted in the
reception and occupancy of this Province.”
You will likewise receive herewith the official document of inter-
change of authority which was formally executed at the period when
the American and Spanish flags were flying on the Standard.
You have inclosed a communication and document accompanied;
from the Spanish Commissioner; which I have informed him has been
refered to the American Government for decision, on the subject of
several pieces of artillery at Amelia Island.—
The Archives relating to private property are so numerous that it
would be an endless task to have them transcribed & I therefore
claimed them as they were, and I deemed it of great importance to
particularize, as you will find from my letter of the 3" Inst.” & num-
bered 26—owing to my receiving information that a large portion of
these documents were packed for transportation—This letter had the
effect of keeping all the documents here until your decision is made
with the Spanish authorities.—
The documents are forwarded by maj. Cross on the part of the
Spanish Commissioner to the minister at Washington, from which
you will be enabled to settle the points left open with him speedily.
I shall be gratified to receive a communication from you; if my
services in this instance has corresponded with the interests of my
country—
As I have not been informed of what allowance will be authorized,
as a compensation for the duty which I have performed; will you be
kind enough to give me the necessary information on this subject
directed to Pensacola.-
I have the honor to be very respectfully Yº M* Obed" Serv"
ROBERT BUTLER U: S: Commissioner
Note. I am just informed by the Spanish Commissioner that his
document will not be sent by Maj. Cross, but will be transmitted
immediately by another conveyance. R. B.
THE HON” J. Q. ADAMS Secº of State
* See ante, p. 59, n.
70 Ante, p. 105.



F L OR I.D.A. T E R RI TOR Y 117
EDMUND P. GAINES TO JOHN R. FENWICK
[NA:WD, West. Dept., Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]
Head Quarters West" Dep"—
LOUISVILLE, KY—July 14* 1821.
SIR, My orders of this date point out the duties to which I have
deemed it proper to call the particular attention of the Senior Officers
of the West" Department”. –
Your immediate Command will comprehend the Southern frontier
of the Florida's, and Alabama, from the Southernmost point of the
former to the eastern boundary of Louisiana. Your Head Quarters
will remain at Pensacola, except when in your judgement it may
become necessary, for you to visit other parts of the frontier; and when-
ever an occasion presents itself, rendering such visit necessary, you
will promptly report it to me; and keep me advised of your movements,
and measures.—
I have the honor &c
(Signed) EDMUND P. GAINEs Major Gen' by Brew" Commº–
COLO: J. R. FENWICK Comg. at Pensacola
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v-ALS)
S” AUGUSTINE 14th July 1821.
Private or unofficial
SIR Although my official duties have permitted a correspondence
with you, I have not before asked leave to make any confidential
communications to you, yet in justice to my personal & family obliga-
tions to you I feel warranted in doing it if my own Conception of duty
prescribes the occasion to me as fit
After an interview with the Governor at the Camp when he received
me very well, H. E. shewed me the list of appointments among which
I observed my name, when he remarked that unless there was a
Salary, the appointment would not give me Salt for my Herrings, I
intimated, that something perhaps within his own appointment not
incompatible with my national duties, might bring my knowlege of
the Spanish into use for the public, I was informed, that it was very
uncertain what local appointment if any was to be made and that he
had transferred all his powers to the Secretary of E. F.
Having perceived some coolness and apparent dissatisfaction among
many expectants on the Spot, I felt much mortification at some re-
marks which were made of the selection of Judges, & other officers,
* No order of July 14, 1821 found, but one of June 14 concerning the enforce-
ment of discipline and the administration of justice by senior officers is in NA
(WD, West. Dept., Order Bk.).



118 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
perhaps including myself, I therefore Considered that my longer Stay
would be as useless to Government, as unpleasant to myself—
On my arrival here, I was introduced to the Sub Commissioner, upon
whom I called, and was received, as the other Citizens who had
waited upon him, without farther notice, than that of the moment,
while the Spanish Governor had pointedly returned every visit which
had been made to him—
This alienation from his Countrymen would have been quite un-
important in point of etiquette, (altho in a Country partaking of the
Spanish), if the municipal appointments had not been continued con-
trary to the expectation of the present incumbents, (the old residents,)
and the natural feeling of the new, who have manifested extreme sore-
ness, at being subject, not only, to Spanish laws quite undefined and
practically unknown in this province, but to the administration of
those laws, by men not recognized as Citizens of the U. S.—
With the ordinary feeling of the Americans an opportunity soon
presented itself, a negro Boy claimed by a Citizen of Georgia as a
Runaway, sought protection under a Certificate of freedom signed by
a man purporting to be the agent of the Master & acknowleged
before the Escribano, but this instrument was disavowed by the tes-
timony in Court, of said Agent (Palisier) The Case was argued before
the Alcalde by several Lawyers of the U. S. say Georgia, on behalf of
the Citizen who contended that the Court was unconstitutional, and
that the Alcalde had no jurisdiction, while the latter maintained that
the evidence by the Escribano's Certificate was conclusive, the Cause
was adjourned twice, at which violent arguments were held and a
farther adjournment until Monday 16th has been made, thus the wide
door of party distinction has been opened, and what name or Char-
acter it is to assume, I know not, but shall use my utmost exertions
on the arrival of the Secretary to stop it in the bud—
I avail myself of this occasion to know whether on accepting my
Commission of Marshall, I shall not consider myself as the Guardian
of such public property as is not specially entrusted to the Care of
particular departments including Wrecks and their proceeds.-
I shall have the honor of addressing you again as anything impor-
tant occurs.
I am with great respect Sir Your most Obedient & very faithful
Servant
JAMES G. FORBES
P. S. 17th July—As the Wessell to carry my letter has been de-
tained, I break it open to add a postcript
The convoy for the Havana of Spanish Troops sailed yesterday
from the Bar whither Governor Coppinger went to hurry them off.-
it was supposed there were many runaway negroes among them having
free passes



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 119
Agreeably to public notice an assembly took place yesterday of the
American Citizens which was thinly attended, not more than 30
when several arguments were adduced by a few professional men who
appear to have been directed more by motives of personal interest
than those of general good and Consequently as variant in their pur-
port and tendency. The meeting broke up without passing any
resolutions, thus making their Separation a source of congratulation
to the old residents who felt uneasy at the Course adopted of express-
ing public opinion in a manner to them unknown
The Indians have appeared in small numbers in town since the
Change and are desirous of knowing whether any provision has been
made for them in the treaty, They are Seminoles and say they ap-
prehend some disturbance with the Cowetas These last are said to
have been at Tampa about 200 strong and taken from thence about
120 Negroes after destroying four Spanish settlements there—
This province like that of the West and most of the Southern
Countries have experienced more rain & inundation than has been
ever recollected
THE HON J. Q. ADAMS.
[Endorsed) James G. Forbes—Ack" 24 Sep.” Recd 29 July.
-
COMMISSIONER AND GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v. LS)
PENSACOLA July 16* 1821.
SIR, I have this day drawn on you in favor of Major Henry Stanton
Quarter Master of the United States Army for Four thousand Six
hundred & twenty dollars by two Drafts: The one for Two thousand
five hundred & Seventy dollars—The other, for Two thousand &
fifty dollars: for which, I herewith transmit you his receipts. These
drafts are for the payment of the transports chartered by MajStanton
conformably to my orders for the transportation of the Spanish troops,
Stores, and baggage from this place to the Havana.
I am, most respectfully Sir, Your ob Servº-
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HON. JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] Andrew Jackson—Recd 15 August.”
** Post, p. 213.
* Acknowledged post, p. 172.



120 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
[Enclosure]
Receipt of Henry Stanton
Received Pensacola July 17, 1821 of MajGen Andrew Jackson Two
drafts drawn by him on John Q. Adams Secretary of State for Four
thousand Six hundred & twenty dollars: One For Two thousand five
hundred & Seventy dollars dated 17 July 1821. The other for Two
thousand & fifty dollars dated same date for which I am to account.
$4620.
(signed Duplicates) HENRY STANTON Quarter Master U. S. A.
TEMPORARY ORGANIZATION OF ST. AUGUSTINE
[LC:St. Augustine, Fla. Gazette, Aug. 4, 1821]
[July 16, 1821] *
CITY COUNCIL
Days of Meeting—Every Monday
President.
John R. BELL, Captain of Artillery, Provisional Secretary of the
Province.
Mayor.
GABRIEL W. PERPALL.
Aldermen.
Joseph M. HERNANDEZ, FRANCIS JOSEPH FATIO
WILLIAM TRAVERS, JoHN HUERTAS (absent.)
Symdick.
BERNARDO SEGUI.
Secretary.
JOHN DE ENTRALGO.
City Wardens.
Joseph M. HERNANDEz—Custom-House Ward,
WILLIAM TRAVERS, Castle ditto,
FRANCIS J. FATIO, Church ditto,
JOHN HUERTAS, Barracks ditto.
Police Officers and their Deputies
ANTHONY MIER, JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ-C. H. Ward
PETER BENET, RAMON ROGERO, Castle ditto
MATTHEW SOLANA, JOHN FONTANE, Church do.
ANDREW PAPY, JoHN PELLISEN, Barracks do.



F L OR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 121
Mayor's Court—daily—from 9 to 12, A. M.
Custom-House.
Collector, Pro. Tem.
GEORGE GIBBS.
Inspector, Pro. Tem.
JOEL DICKINSON.
Board of Health.
GABRIEL W. PERPALL, FRANCIS P. SANCHEZ,
WILLIAM TRAVERS, DR. RICHARD MURRAY,
REV. MICHAEL CROSBY,
Board of Pilotage.
FRANCIS P. SANCHEZ,
CHARLES ROBIOU,
ANTELM GAY,
WILLIAM LEVINGSTON,
ISAAC WICKES,
Merchants.
Mariners.
Justices of the Peace.
River St John's.
FRANCIS R. SANCHEZ-Upper District.
FRANCIS PHILIP FATIO—Lower ditto.
Nassau River.—JOHN BROWARD
St. Mary's River.
SHADRACK STRANSLEY—Upper District.
JOHN T. LOWE, Lower ditto.
Notary Public.
JOHN DE ENTRALGO.
Public Translator.
FRANCIS JOSEPH FATIO.
Notice of which is given to the Public by order of the City Council.
JOHN DE ENTRALGO, Secretary.
St. Augustine, July 16, 1821.



122 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT RE TRANSFER OF WEST
FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v1:C ")
[July 17, 1821?]
Articles of agreement, between H E. Don Jose Callava, and Gen.'
Andrew Jackson, commissioner on the part of the U States; relative
to the evacuation and delivery of W Florida
ARTICLE 1* It devolves upon Gen' Jackson to fulfil the stipula-
tions of the 7” Article of the Treaty, relative to the transportation of
the “Spanish officers, Troops, and their Baggage” to the Havanna.
Gen' Jackson will furnish suitable transports, and Major Staunton
charged with the duty will notify His Excellency Don Jose Callava,
when the Transports are ready for the embarkation of the Spanish
Troops—fifteen days rations (the American ration) of salt provisions,
bread &c with two days of fresh meat and vegetables are to be pro-
cured, making in all 17 days provisions, to be provided as expressed
in Gen' Jackson's letter of the 20; instant.” The provisions to be
turned over to the Spanish Commissary or officer authorized to
receive them, and subject to the disposition His Excellency Don
Jose Callava may think proper to make: The hours of distribution,
cooking &c to be directed by Spanish agents exclusively: No American
Officers, Stewards or Commissaries to sail in the Transports; and the
Captain and crew of the Transports to be charged exclusively with
the navigation of these vessels
No stipulations can be made by Gen' Jackson for the transporta-
tion of Field Artillery; as not embraced in the 7” Article of the
Treaty—Gen' Jackson however with a view of accommodating his
Excellency; will not object to the embarking of a few pieces pro-
nounced by Major Staunton as Field Artillery, and considered as
forming a part of the arms belonging to the Troops; Provided, in the
opinion of Major Staunton the Artillery so designated can be trans-
ported without occupying the place in transports which must be
appropriated to baggage and other Articles we are bound under the
Treaty to transport—
ARTICLE 2* As soon as the Transports are ready, it devolves upon
the Spanish Commandant, with a view of expediting the evacuation
of the Province, to name the day for the embarkation of the Spanish
Troops, and the time so named will be such as not to subject the vessels
to an unreasonable detention, or the U States to the expense of
demurrage.
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821, post, 137.
* Meaning ultimo; printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 72–74, from NA
(SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vi).
º
º



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 123
Should Major Staunton agree upon receiving any Field Artillery
on board the Transports, the operation of embarking the same must
be performed exclusively by the Spanish Troops.
ARTICLE 3" The Commandant of West Florida will have in readi-
mess Inventories of all Archives, Public instruments, Records and
Documents,” that relate to the property and sovereignty of that
Province. These Inventories, signed by the officers appointed on
the part of the Spanish Commandant, will be compared with the
records, Documents &c by three American officers certifying that the
Inventory and Documents correspond—Which Inventory so certified
with the Archives, Documents, &c. will be delivered to the American
Commissioner and receipted for by him—
ARTICLE 4* A statement of the Public Edifices, buildings, Barracks,
Fortifications, their situations &" as particularized in the 2*Article of
the Treaty, will be made out and certified by the Spanish Com-
mandant;” but there will be no necessity of the delivery of those
buildings separately from the General delivery of the Province, in-
cluding Islands, Public Lots, Squares, buildings &" as expressed in
the 5* and next Article—
ARTICLE 5* As soon as a final delivery of that Portion of the
Floridas under your command, including Islands, Public Lots, Squares,
unappropriated Lands, buildings, Edifices, Fortifications &" is made
to the American Commissioner—A process verbal "in authentic form,
signed by both parties; adverting to the authorities under which they
have respectively acted, will announce the fact of the delivery on the
*An inventory of the archives which came into American possession at the
time of the transfer of sovereignty is in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI). It is
printed, Irene A. Wright, “The Odyssey of the Spanish Archives of Florida,” in
A. Curtis Wilgus (ed.), Hispanic American Essays, a Memorial to James Alexander
Robertson (Chapel Hill, 1942), pp. 202–205; copies of the inventory in Spanish and
English are in NA (SD, Fla. Archives, Record Bk. 2, Acts of Possession E. and
W. Fla., pp. 332–335). For a documented account of the acquisition of the
archives and their subsequent history, see Miss Wright's article.
* Not found. See Stanton to Jackson, July 30, 1821 (post, p.155) for summary
of same subject.
” The original English and Spanish texts of this document, executed July 17,
1821, is in NA(SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), with a covering letter of July 18 from
Jackson to the Secretary of State. The procès-verbal was published contempo-
raneously in the Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 18, 1821, and in Niles' Reg., xx (Aug.
25, 1821), 404–405; and printed subsequently in Vignoles, Observations, pp.
170–172; White, New Coll. Laws, II, 223–225; and A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 764–765.
Jackson announced the completion of the transfer of West Florida (July 17) in
brief letters to the Secretary of State, July 17, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers,
printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 764 and Bassett, ed., Corr. Jackson, III, 104–105),
and to the Secretary of War, same date (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., J7). The press
of duties connected with the organization of the government of the territory
following the final step of the occupation preventing him from submitting a
detailed report until July 30, 1821, which see post, p. 137.



124 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
one part, and of the receiving on the other, of the Province of W Florida
conformably to the stipulations of the Treaty—
A form of the Process verbal has been drawn out and submitted for
the approval of the Spanish Commandant. This document contains
the substance of the manifestos deemed essential by the Spanish
Commandant, as submitted in the 6* Article of Agreement, and sent
to Gen' Jackson
The delivery of the Province, signing the Documents necessary &"
should take place in Pensacola—The ceremony of changeing the Flag
may be performed at the Fortified Point, Barrancas; but should be
on the same day, hour, and simultaneous with the above event—
This ceremony may be agreed upon hereafter "-
[No signatures]
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v:ALS)
St AUGUSTINE July 17th 1821
SIR On the eleventh inst. I received from Col. R. Butler the
Commissioner on the part of the United States for taking possession
of the Province of East Florida under the late treaty with Spain, a
commission from Gen' Andrew Jackson Governor of the Floridas
authorising me provisionally to perform all the duties of the Secretary
of the Province until the arrival of Mº Worthington who has been
appointed by the President of the United States, and vesting in me
all the powers civil and military that was before exercised by the
late Spanish Governor Don Jose Coppinger.”
By the proclamation of Gen' Jackson,” the civil officers appointed
or elected under the Spanish Government are retained in office—
Spanish laws and authorities under the Spanish Constitution to be
obeyed respected and enforced; in this there will be some discontents
who are from the States as ignorant of all law as they are destitute of
good principal and common honesty.
Mº Rodman appointed collector by the President not having
arrived, M* George Gibbs has been provisionally appointed—Of which
information will be given to the Secretary of the Treasury—I have
also appointed Don F. J. Fatio translator and interpreter, a copy of
which I enclose;” this gentleman's services cannot be dispensed with
as most of the public documents and papers are written in the Spanish
* See Jackson to the Secretary of State, July 18, 1821, NA (SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, V), printed A. S. P., op. cit., p. 764, enclosing a copy of the process verbal,
signed by Jackson and Callava. See acknowledgment, post, p. 172.
* Ante, p. 114.
* Ante, p. 110.
81 Present.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 125
language which is also the language most used in the common trans-
action of business—I wished to be informed if this appointment is
approved and what will be the compensation allowed for his services—
I have also to ask, if any remuneration will be made to me for addi-
tional expences in quarters, clerk hire, Stationary and other extras
consequent to my situation as acting Governor of the Province.”—
A Captains pay, will not go far in payment of absolute and necessary
expences.”—
Most respectfully I am, Sir, Your obedt Serv"
JN* R. BELL Cap' Comdg & Provil Secretary of E. F.—
HON”* JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington City
|Endorsed] J. R. Bell—Rec" 4 Aug"
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 8:LS)
Sº AUGUSTINE, July 17* 1821
SIR. Before the receipt of this you will have been informed of the
exchange of Flags at this place on the 10* Inst.* on the 11* I re-
ceived from Col Butler the commissioner on the part of the United
States, a commission from Gen' Andrew Jackson Governor of the
Floridas, by which I am provisionally vested with all the powers and
authorities heretofore exercised by Don Jose Coppinger Governor of
the Province of East Florida,” until the arrival of M* Worthington
duly appointed Secretary by the President of the United States—
Col Butler left here on the 14* for Pensacola, the Spanish fleet of
transports for the Havana sailed yesterday under convoy of the
United States Schooner Porpoise Capt Ramage, the late Governor
Coppinger remains here for some time as Spanish Commissioner—
Majº Cross Sailed in a Schooner this morning bound for Philadelphia
accompanied by Lieut Wells “” of the Army ordered to Pittsburgh—
via Washington City—No civil or military officers who have been
appointed or arranged to this Station have yet arrived.—
The Fort and public buildings are in a rapid state of delapidation,
to arrest the hand of ruin and to occupy some of them, I have given
orders to Lieut Washburn,” to immediately cause a coat of cement to
be laid on the Terrace of the fort which will prevent the water from
washing through the masonry, into the Barrack rooms and stores;
* See post, p. 175.
* No acknowledgment found. See post, p. 132.
* Ante, p. 112.
* See note to commission issued to Worthington, July 1, 1821 (ante, p. 105),
and conveyed to St. Augustine by Colonel Gadsden.
* William Wells.
* Samuel Washburn.



126 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
to furnish lime sufficient for whitewashing the walls inside and out,
and to furnish materials for laying floors and making bunks also to
have temporally repaired the Government house for officers quarters,
there being none suitable for that purpose at present in the fort—I
have also drawn on him for Stores & provisions for a small party of
Indians that came in yesterday of the Seminole tribe.
They appear to be a wretched, miserable Set—Their chief business
was to be introduced to the new Governor and to inform him, that
very recently a party of Indians (Cawetus)* Said to be headed by
M*Intosh * came into their neighbourhood and had taken off a
Considerable number of negroes and some Indians, that the com-
mander of the party had sent them information that in a short time
he should return and drive all the Indians off. Similar information
I received last evening from another source—not being apprised of
any authorised movement of the kind on the part of the United
States, or Gen' Jackson, I have concluded that when that party
returns, should I not receive information for my Government on the
subject that I would send out an armed force to know from the leader
his authority, and if he has none from the Government or Gen"
Jackson to immediately to put a stop to his proceedings at the same
time secure what runaway negroes we can and keep them in Safety
to be given up to their real owners when properly identified—I am
also informed that a french gentleman * has been on the S" Johns
river styling himself an authorised agent of the United States to
explore the Country & to hold talks with the Indians, him I shall
take measures thro’ the Alcalde to have brought before me.
In making expenditures I shall have a due regard to economy,
but I fear they will be somewhat blended as they should fall under
most of the heads of the Quarter Masters, Engineers, Subsistence,
ordnance, clothing & Indian departments—It shall be our endeavour
to keep them so separated as that on their being presented for Settle-
ment, they will with your approbation be passed to the credit of the
Act" Quarter Master.”
most respectfully I am, Sir, Your obedº Serv"
JN° R BELL Cap' Comg & Provis' Secy of E. Florida
THE HON” JoHN, C, CALHOUN Secy of War
[Endorsed] Bell, J. R. Capt” &c. Sº Augustine, 17 July, 1821—
relative to repairs of Fort & public buildings—to a party of Seminole
Indians—to their being pillaged by a party of Cawetus &c, &cc
* Kawitas, one of the member bands of the Lower Creeks.
* William McIntosh, chief of the Lower Creeks.
90 J. A. Penſerés.
*1 Answered post, p. 164.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 127
i:
§:
aft'ſ
| I
º:
st
T.
|Endorsed by Major Cross] * The repairs referred to in the second
paragraph were on a joint inspection of Cap" Bell and myself deemed
advisable—Their cost will be very inconsiderable. Funds were
placed in the hands of the Q’ Master sufficient to accomplish these
repairs and meet the wants of the station to the end of Sept: T.
CrOSS 99
POSTAL SERVICE FROM ST. AUGUSTINE TO ST. MARYS
[LC: St. Augustine, Florida Gazette, July 28, 1821]
[July 17, 1821].
POST OFFICE
The Public are informed, that a regular Mail will be continued
between this City and St. Mary's—It will leave this, on Thursday
mornings, and return the following Monday's. Letters intended to
goby Mail, must be left at the Post-Office on Wednesdays.
In future, all Captains of vessels, will be required to deposit all
letters brought by them, in this office, except those addressed to
Consignees.
July 17. D. COPP, acting Post-Master.
* Brackets are on the original.
* See Jackson's summary of events leading to the occupation, post, p. 137.






PART TWO
Papers Relating to the Administration
of Governor Jackson
1821
301867—57—10






PART TWO
TEMPORARY ORGANIZATION OF PENSACOLA BY
GOVERNOR JACKSON 1
[LC: Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M*]
|July 19, 1821]
Commissions issued the 19* July 1821.-for Pensacola
J" C. Bronaugh,”—Resident Physician.
John W. D. Voorhees—Health Officer—21* July 1821
H. M. Brackenridge Alcalde—& Notary. (17*)
George Bowie, Mayor—
William Barnet Esq.-Alderman—
|John] Keyser Esq’- D"
|George) Fisher—Esq." Dº
James. C. Craig, Alguazil—or Town Constable
Henry Michelet Esq.-Alderman.
Innerarity (John) Esq.-Alderman.
Brosnaham (John) Esq. Alderman.
David Wright,”—Branch Pilot.—
Oliver Clark Harbour Master—
Luther Lincoln," Branch-Pilot.
[David] Cowan to be Port Warden"—
"Jackson's status as Commissioner ceased with the occupation of Pensacola.
* This list is also printed in the Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 18, 1821, from which
the bracketed names have been supplied. The newspaper list also gives Edward
Townes and N. Shackelford as justices of the peace.
* Copies of the appointments of Bronaugh, Voorhees, Brackinridge, Barnet,
Love, Hannum, and Miller are in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
Additional appointments of this date are in the same file for Henry D. Peire as
alguazil mayor (sheriff) of Escambia County, for Stokley D. Hutchings and
John Garnier as auctioneers at Pensacola, and for David Shannon, dated July 24,
1821, as presiding judge of the Escambia County court.
* A number of residents of Louisiana, including Daniel L. Patterson, Edward
Livingston, Louis Alexis, Thomas L. Cunningham, and James B. Many, in an
undated letter to Jackson, recommended Wright who had previously served as
branch pilot at Pensacola under Col. King (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 61, end 1821).
*Lincoln had been a master of vessels for 30 years, according to a recommen-
dation from A. L. Duncan and others (loc. cit., undated, 1821).
* David Cowan, port warden at Pensacola, made a report to Governor Jackson,
Aug. 11, 1821 (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 60), relative to the attempt of the
merchants to reduce the fees of the port warden, pilots, and harbor masters.
131



132 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Justices of the Peace & Quorum.
David Shannon,” President.
W" Barnet, 1* Associate,”
John Garnier,” 2* Ass"—
Sebastian Caro, 3” Ass”—"
Jose Noriega, 4* Ass"—
Justices of the Peace.
tRdward B.] Foster Esq.”
John Simpson Esq.
Alex'-Hewe–Pºsét: B. Aiken
[Blank] Wilson. Esq.
Manuel Gonzales Esq.
W. L. Hannum, Prosecut" Attorney
John Miller Esq. Clerk of the C’ Court.
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE July 24* 1821
SIR Since my letter to you of the 17* inst.” I have in order to
facilitate the transaction of business and to afford the highest satis-
faction to those having verbal communications to make in the
Spanish language thought proper to appoint provisionally William
Reynolds Esq. as private Secretary a copy of which appointment is
herewith inclos'd "-
I have also appointed provisionally Thomas Fitch Esq.' " Attorney
* Shannon had been recommended to Jackson by former Sen. John J. Crittenden,
of Ky., Apr. 14, 1821; by Gov. William T. Barry, of Ky., Apr. 15, 1821; and
by J. C. Breckinridge, of Lexington, Ky., Apr. 15, 1821 (NA, SD, Applications).
* An application from Garnier, Jan. 14, 1821, at Natchez, Miss., was trans-
mitted to the President by Rep. Christopher Rankin of that State (loc. cit.).
* Note Colo Barnett & S. Caro has refused to accept the appointment of
associate Justices, this 26th day of July 1821. A. J.-Mr Foster in the room of
Barnett Mr Towne in S. Caro—[Footnote on the MS.]
* Ante, p. 124.
10 Not present but filed in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v). Reynolds was a
former resident of Lancaster County, Pa., who had studied law and was familiar
with the Spanish language from a residence of several years in Spain. See Rep.
James Buchanan to the President, Apr. 26, 1822 (NA, SD, Applications). See
also post, p. 353.
11 Fitch's obituary is in St. Augustine Fla. Gazette, Sept. 15, 1821. While in
office, he made a study, at Bell's request, of the state of the Spanish government
of E. Fla. and of the legal perplexities involved in applying Spanish and American
laws in an American territory, for which see Fitch to Bell, Nov. 12, 1821 (NA,
SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, viii).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 133
General ” for the province in the absence of the person holding the
Office under the Spanish Government as also the individual appointed
by the president of the United States; as cases are almost daily coming
before me which require that I should have legal advice or council
in order to dispose of them for the present in such a way as to secure
to each individual the right of a trial hereafter and to secure the
property if any is concern, d to the rightful owner *
Wery respectfully I am Sir your ob" St.
JN" R. BELL Cap' Comdt.
& Provis' Secretary of E Florida
HoNº" JoHN QUINZEY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington City
|Endorsed] Recd 11 Augt. John R. Bell “–
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHING-
TON (EAST FLORIDA)
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M)
PENSACOLA 26 July 1821.
To M. WoRTHINGTON Secretary of East Florida, or in his absence
to the Officer exercising his authority.
SIR Herewith enclosed you will receive sundry Ordinances (viz)
N° 1 for the incorporation of the Town of St Augustine, N° 2 & 3
establishing Quarantine regulations, and providing for the natural-
ization of the inhabitants of the ceded territory. Nº 4 establishing
Counties and County Courts within the Floridas,” and N* 5–explana-
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v). In the same place are found other appoint-
ments by Jackson in E. Fla. as follows: July 19, 1821, John Dubose and Charles
Robison as aldermen; July 24, 1821, George Murray as prosecuting attorney;
July 27, 1821, George Murray as justice of the peace; and in NA (SD, Misc.
Letters) July 19, 1821, Philo Andrews as alderman and (July 24, 1821) as pre-
siding judge of the St. Johns County Court. Jackson's appointment of Thomas
H. Penn as justice of the quorum of St. Johns, July 27, 1821, was enclosed by Penn
to the Sec. of State, July 15, 1823, relative to his account for $100 for 20 days
service as judge of the county court (ibid.).
* See post, p. 175.
* Bell was paid the sum of $200 for his services as provisional Secretary and
Acting Governor of E. Fla. (prior to the arrival of Worthington), for the period
July 11–Aug. 19, 1821 (NA, GAO, Diplomatic and Consular Accts., No. 1130,
certified Aug. 2, 1822).
* See post, p. 437.



134 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
tory of the mode of proceeding in the County Courts, which you will
officially attest and have duly promulgated.”
You will also receive sundry blank Commissions which you will
please to fill with the names of fit and suitable persons to perform
the duties assigned in said commissions, attest and deliver them—
I also enclose you blanks with my Signature, for as many Officers as
will be necessary to carry into effect and execution the Government as
organized by the different Ordinances above mentioned.
The Ordinance incorporating the Town of St Augustine does not
specify its limits, as you will discover from the 4* Section, which
relates to this subject, this was omitted from a want of information
relative to the local situation of the place, and you are authorized
to conclude the 4* Section, by giving to the Town such incorporated
limits, as in your judgement will be most conducive to its convenience
and prosperity.
I have given the appointment of Sheriff for the County of St Johns
to Capt" Hannum" late of the Army, by whom this will be delivered.—
I have offered the appointment of Clerk of the County Court to
Major Willis,” late of the Army provided he should reach you in due
time. I have enclosed this commission blank that in case he should
not arrive in time for the first Session of the Court, that it may be
filled with the name of some other person qualified to perform the
duties, but should he join you in time for the organization of the
Court, the Commission will be given to him.—The appointment of
all other Officers provided for in the different Ordinances, I have left
to your own discretion having no doubt, but in all your selections
you will alone consult, the good, the happiness and security of the
People of East Florida—I enclose you a Commission of Marshall of
1* These ordinances were promulgated by Worthington at St. Augustine, Aug.
20, 1821, in a pamphlet printed by Richard W. Edes, publisher of the Fla. Gazette,
with the title: Ordinances, by Major-General Andrew Jackson, Governor of the
Provinces of the Floridas, Exercising the Powers of the Captain-General, and of the
Intendant of the Island of Cuba, over the Said Provinces, and of the Governors of
Said Provinces Respectively. The pamphlet was reproduced photographically
in 1939 by the Library of Congress from a copy in its collections which was once
owned by John Rodman, collector of the customs at St. Augustine, and again by
the John Calhoun Club (Chicago, 1941), in facsimile under the editorship of
Douglas C. McMurtrie. The ordinances were also published contemporaneously
in the Fla. Gazette, issues of Sept. 1, Sept. 8, and Sept. 15, 1821. See also post,
p. 180.
17 This appointment went to James R. Hanham, a former captain in the U. S.
Army, rather than to Washington L. Hannum, who had been appointed prosecut-
ing attorney of W. Fla. Hanham was still filling the position of sheriff of St-
Johns County in 1823 (St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, June 14, 1823). W. L.
Hannum became a lawyer in Pensacola (Pensacola, Floridian, Sept. 1, 1821).
is Byrd C. Willis.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 135
the Floridas for Col Forbes” (forwarded to me by the State Depart-
ment) together with a Copy of a letter from Mº Adams” requiring
of me to take the necessary security from Col. Forbes for the faithful
discharge of his duties—When you deliver him the Commission you
will comply with the instructions contained in the letter, by which
you will be regulated as to the amount of the Security to be required.
I have only to add on this subject, that the Marshall's situation may
be such as to have large sums of money in his hands, belonging to
both the Gov" and to individuals, and the security should be such,
as to give perfect security to all and particularly to individuals.
I trust ere this reaches you, Col. Butler will have received possession
of East Florida and its dependencies” and that he has turned over
the Government to you with my instructions, sent by Col Gadsden
on board the U. S. Schooner Revenge which sailed from this Port on
the 1* instant”—
I have the pleasure to inform you that on the 17* instant at 10
Oclk A. M. I received formal possession of West Florida. and its
dependencies and hoisted the Star Spangled Banner with the tune of
“long may it wave, o'er the Land of the free and the home of the
brave.”
I have the honor to be—very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt.
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON Govt of the Floridas &" &" &".
WILLIAM G. D. WoRTHINGTON.—Sect” of E. Florida, or in his
absence, the Officer exercising his authority.
P. S. M. James B. Patterson late of New York has been highly
recommended to me & I have to request you will give him the appoint-
ment of Prosecuting Attorney to the County Court.
"Ante, p. 45.
* Dated June 27, 1821 (NA, SD, Dom. Letters, XIX).
* Ante, p. 135.
* Ante, p. 97.
* See post, p. 180.



136 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
- [NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v. ALS)
St AUGUSTINE 29th July 1821.
SIR Since I had the honor of addressing you on the 17th instant,”
nothing has occurred worthy your notice, I therefore confined myself
to the bare enclosure of the last Newspaper, I now beg leave to add
that of the day (yesterday) *—
I regret to state that none of the Civil officers have yet appeared,
notwithstanding which the irritability on the part of some of the Citi-
zens of the U.S. has subsided and the public feeling of the old Inhabi-
tants more inclined to harmonize—the establishment of a Species of
Tribunal Composed of Military & Civil members having tended to awe
the disorderly and give Confidence to the peaceable Inhabitants—
The Case of the Slave referred to in my last respects is still in
suspence but the Conduct of the Citizen of Georgia has been highly
disgraceful and reprehensible
Owing to the evacuation by the Spaniards a void is very perceptible
which has not yet been repaired by any arrivals and the King's
allowance scanty as it was is strongly and sensibly felt, Those Coming
in being of a needy and Speculative character neither affording releif
or deriving encouragement in the present miserable State of the
Province almost inundated by Constant rains and without Commerce
or such products as can create it immediately *
I am with the greatest respect Sir Your most Obedient and very
faithful Servant
JAMES G. FORBES
To THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS. Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed) James G. Forbes—Ack" 24 Sep.” Reca 15 Augt.
* Ante, p. 118.
* Enclosure not present.
20 Other communications from Forbes to the Sec. of State, dated July 14 (2),
Aug. 14, Sept.4, Oct. 17, and Nov. 6, 1821, are in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v,
vii, VIII, IX), and largely duplicate information contained in Worthington’s
letters. See also post, p. 171.
27 Post, p. 213.



FL OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 137
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI:LS 2s)
PENSACOLA 30th July 1821.
SIR I seize the first moment of leisure I have been able to obtain
for more than a month, to lay before you an account of the commission
confided to me in relation to the Floridas, and also the measures
adopted for their Government until the will of the President be known.
In my letters from Blakeley of the 1*** and 7th of May,” duplicates
of which with accompanying documents have been forwarded, I
informed you of my arrival at that place, of my disappointment in
not hearing from the Hornet of my despatching Mess” Brackenridge
and Bronaugh with a letter to Governor Callava, and of my communi-
cation with Montpelier. I had with confidence calculated on the
arrival of the Hornet by the first of May, and from a knowledge of the
habitual apathy of Spanish functionaries, I thought it advisable even
before the arrival of the Hornet, to announce my commission to the
Spanish Governor of West Florida, and after offering to exhibit the
royal order and my commission for receiving the country, to ask
information upon certain points, which would tend to expedite and
facilitate subsequent arrangements. From his letter which has also
been forwarded it will be seen that he declined to comply with my
request; but I am well satisfied that this early step had a favorable
operation upon our subsequent transactions. It drew from him, a
promise that the surrender of the Country should not be delayed by
him, in case he should be the person commissioned for the purpose,
and I think it not improbable, that this measure had also some effect
with the Captain General of Cuba. I had rec" intimations both at
New Orleans, and at Blakeley, that speculations were in contempla-
tion, to accomplish which, great pains would be taken by the parties
concerned to delay the surrender of the ceded Country, and since that
period I have heard it frequently expressed as a matter of surprise that
no attempt of the kind had been made, at least in this quarter.
On the return of Mess" Bronaugh and Brackenridge I proceeded to
Montpelier having been previously joined by my Aid de Camp Cap'
Call. On the 11* I again addressed a letter to the Governor of West
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 896–901.
”Ante, p. 38.
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., iv, 758, and
Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 53. The latter version is from LC (Jackson
Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M). The letter in question enclosed the report of
Bronaugh and Brackenridge (May 7, 1821), their letter to Callava, and his reply
(both dated May 3, 1821); all are present (printed, A. S. P., op.cit., pp. 758–759).
Enclosed also was Callava's reply of May 4, 1821, to Jackson's letter of Apr. 30,
1821; both present (printed ibid., pp. 757, 760). Cf. ante, p. 73.



138 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
Florida " which I despatched by Capt. Call who was instructed to
remain at Pensacola until the arrival of the Hornet, for I still confi-
dently hoped this could not be delayed many days, and also authorised
Cap" Call to make any preliminary arrangements with the Governor,
which he would be willing to enter into. In my letter to him of the
11” after expressing my regret at his not considering himself author-
ised to give the information I had asked, I informed him that orders
had been given to provide transportation for six hundred men with
supplies for their voyage, that the same was then ready, and would
sail for Pensacola on the first notification of the receipt of the Royal
Order at that place. In doing this my intention was to deprive him
of all excuse on the score of his not having had sufficient time to make
his preparations for quitting the Country. I had previously informed
him of the assurances of the Spanish Minister at Washington, that no
delay should be experienced in the surrender of the Floridas, and which
I now took occasion to repeat. After stating the unpleasant situation
in which the American Troops were placed in the interior, I pro-
ceeded to inform him that two public vessels the Shields and the Amelia
were then at anchor in Mobile Bay with supplies for Pensacola and
St. Marks, and proposed to make a deposit of the supplies intended
for our Troops at the former place, and also requested to be informed
whether it would meet his wishes to have the Troops of Spain brought
from St. Marks to Pensacola, as a preparatory measure to the surrender
of the Country, so that all the Spanish officers and Soldiers might sail
together under the same convoy. This was intended to render the
evacuation more convenient and agreeable to them. I had began to
entertain serious doubts of the speedy arrival of the Hornet, and
thought that if a preliminary arrangement of this kind could be made,
time might be saved. The Governor in his reply of the 16** con-
sented to the proposal of making a deposit of the provisions for the
American Troops, approved of the proposal respecting the transporta-
tion of the Troops from St. Marks, but denied that he had any power
to make any preliminary arrangement or do any act connected with
the surrender of the Country until he should have received orders
from his superior. The vessels accordingly sailed for Pensacola, and
the provisions were placed in deposit at that place. It may be well
here to observe, that at a subsequent period, the Governor thought
proper to claim the benefit of the proposal to bring the Spanish Troops
to this place from St. Marks, although not assented to when made,
and was acceded to by me from a wish to deal with him in the most
liberal and generous manner, at the same time that I was determined
to permit no idle and useless delay.
* Respecting further the formalities of the delivery of W. Fla. Copy present
as enclosure with above letter, and printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 54–55.
* Present; printed, in English translation, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 761–762.
---
º



FLO RI D A T E R R ITO R Y 139
Nearly two weeks elapsed after the departure of Cap" Call, without
hearing a word of the Hornet. The anxiety which I experienced can
be more readily imagined than expressed. Without speaking of my
own situation, and that of my family which was extremely uncom-
fortable, I began to entertain serious apprehensions that there was no
intention to surrender the country before the 22" of August. During
this painful state of suspence, many rumors were afloat and how far,
well or ill founded, it was impossible for me to say. I was utterly
unable to conjecture the cause of the delay of Col: Forbes, it appeared
to me that a few days would have sufficed for the transmission of the
Royal Order to the Floridas, and I took it for granted that if any con-
siderable delay was likely to be experienced in procuring the archives,
a person could be left to receive them, in order to accomplish the more
important object of obtaining immediate possession of the ceded terri-
tories. On an attentive examination of the stipulations of the Treaty,
I was satisfied in my own mind that the seventh Article relating to
the transportation of the Spanish officers and Troops, and the evacu-
ation of the places occupied by them, was a different matter from the
surrender of the sovereignty of the Country, as stipulated under the
Second Article of the Treaty, and for which no specific time was
appointed, and therefore to date from the exchange of ratifications.
This construction was confirmed by the stipulations on the subject of
duties, by which the twelve years privilege granted to Spain was to
commence three months after the ratification; and the provision
which under a construction different from that I had given would
have been entirely unnecessary, that the duties collected by the
Spanish Custom-house Officers from the time of the exchange of rati-
fications until the surrender, might be retained. The circumstances
attending the Treaty, although not appearing on the face of it, I was
satisfied ought in good conscience and in truth, to place the date of
its ratification on the part of Spain as far back as October last. These
wise considerations which I kept in reserve to be acted on only in
case of the most urgent necessity, having set out with a determination
to carry the Treaty into effect if possible in harmony and good will.
I was also determined on the arrival of the Royal Order, to permit no
useless delay, as I conceived that after this, the termination of the
business was left to Governor Callava and myself, our respective
Governments having confided it to us, and I was determined that on
such event, nothing should be wanting on my part.
On the 20" Cap" Call” returned to Montpelier in company with
Mº Thompson * who brought me the first certain information of the
* Call served as acting Secretary for W. Fla., Apr. 14–Aug. 10, 1821, for which
he received the sum of $590 (NA, GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 1130 [1822]).
He was succeeded by George Walton.
* Gilbert L. Thompson.



140 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Hornet. Mº Thompson was the bearer of a letter from Col: Forbes *
to which I refer you, which, although far from being satisfactory,
together with the assurances of Mº Thompson that the Hornet would
probably have sailed in a few days after his departure from Havanna,
served in some measure to remove the uneasiness I had experienced.
I began to entertain a hope that the long expected vessel might at
last arrive. In anticipation of this event I addressed a letter to Col:
Gadsden who had shortly before reached Pensacola, and appointed
him a confidential agent to reside at that place, and for the purposes
expressed in my letter to him of the 21* of May to which I refer
you.” Having occason for the services of Col: Gadsden near me, I
transfered his powers to Capt. Call, and was joined by the former at
Montpelier. On the 22” I addressed a letter to Major Fanning the
officer commanding at Fort Gadsden,” giving the necessary orders for
the taking possession and occupation of St. Marks, to which I must
also refer you as more fully explanatory of the arrangements made
with a view to that operation.
From this period until I addressed you my letter of the 30" of
May * I remained at Montpelier in the same uncertainty and with
increasing solicitude. Reports reached me that Cap" Reed of the
Hornet had fallen a victim to the climate of Havanna, and that the
greater part of the crew was unfit for duty. My letter of the ninth
of June * will shew the painful anxiety which I felt during this period,
not a little heightened by the bad state of my health. I prepared in
the mean time, an express to be despatched to St. Augustine with
instructions to Col: Butler, and wrote him the letter under date of
the 2" of June " to give him the earliest information of events in
this quarter—I was apprehensive that the vessels employed to trans-
port the Troops from East Florida would have arrived, and occasion
a heavy demurrage, as the same precautions could not well be taken
85 May 7, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v, printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp.
744, 761), recounting his negotiations at Havana. See also other Forbes cor-
respondence from Havana, ibid., pp. 742–760.
30 May 21, 1821 (NA, loc. cit.), printed, Bassett, ed., op. cit., pp. 57–58, from
text in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M). Jackson's commission
to Gadsden, May 21, to receive Fort St. Marks is also present with the above
letter. See also comments in Jackson to the Secretary of State, May 21, 1821
(NA, loc. cit.), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 57, from the same source, and id.
to the Secretary of War, May 22, 1821, printed ibid., pp. 58–60, from LC (Jackson
Papers, Vol. 59).
87 Ante, p. 53.
* NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 762, and Bassett
(ed.), op. cit., pp. 61–62.
39 NA (SD, loc. cit.), extract printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 762.
40 LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M), explaining the delay in the
transfer of W. Fla. and stating his intention of marching his troops into the
province on Aug. 22. Not printed.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 141
there, as in this quarter, where we were more convenient to the place
at which the transports were to be procured.
I had almost given up all hope of the arrival of the Hornet, when at
last I was informed by express that she had arrived at Pensacola on
the evening of the 9” of June after having been detained six weeks in
Havanna for reasons which to me still remain unaccounted for. A
letter from Col: Forbes “was brought by the same express informing
me of his arrival at Pensacola in company with Don Alba as commis-
sioner on the part of Spain. I refer you to this letter and to my reply
dated the eleventh.” I could not but remark with some surprise that
the Order of the Cap" General was for the delivery of West Florida to
Col: Forbes as commissioner on the part of the United States, this was
owing to a mistake Col: Forbes informs me,” which, although discov-
ered before the sailing of the Hornet, could not be corrected for want
of time. The length of time which elapsed from the date of the Order
and the sailing of the Hornet, is a circumstance which I must confess
I do not clearly understand. It is by no means accounted for, by the
delay in procuring the archives; all that could be procured, was a few
extracts from the Treaty of '83 between Spain and Great Britain, and
which I presume is to be had in any common library. The important
papers relating to the grants of Land in this Country, as well as other
documents directly relating to the Floridas must still be the subject of
negotiation between the respective Governments. I forbear to make
any further remark on this head but will refer you to my letter of the
11*** sent by Express after my former letter had gone,” and also to
the communications of Col: Forbes himself.
Without loss of time I addressed the letter of the 12” to Governor
Callava,” having previously received his communication of the 10* *
brought to me by Cap" Call. I expressed my gratification at the
promptitude with which he had imparted to me the information he
had promised on the arrival of the Hornet, and was pleased with his
frankness in waving any advantage of the Order being for the sur-
render of the Country to Mº Forbes. To meet what appeared liberal,
with equal liberality, I assented to his request that the Spanish Troops
should be brought from St. Marks to be embarked with those at this
place. Cap" Call who had been authorised to make the arrangement
for the evacuation of S*Marks had been met by the difficulty antici-
* June 9, 1821, present as enclosure in the above letter. See ante, p. 89.
* Copy present as enclosure.
* June 11, 1821, in which Forbes explains error; copy present as enclosure.
“NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed A. S. P., op. cit., p. 763.
* June 10, 1821, loc. cit., printed ibid., p. 762.
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 67–69,
from the copy enclosed to the Secretary of State.
* NA (loc. cit.), printed ibid., pp. 66–67.



142 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
pated by you in relation to the construction of the Treaty. The Span-
ish Governor required a receipt for the cannon and munitions of War
left at St. Marks, contending that the former was not included under
the term fortification. To his proposal I acceded according to the
terms expressed in my letter of the 12* in which I urged all the argu-
ments which then suggested themselves to me to prove the right of the
United States under the Second Article of the Treaty. I also brought
into view the manner in which the 7” Article was expressed and the
liberal construction placed upon it by the President under a belief
that a construction equally liberal would be placed by Spain on the one
before mentioned; and finally refered him to Captain Call to whom I
had given in my letter of the same date * authority to make a pro-
visional arrangement in case the Governor after the reasons I had given
should persist in his construction of the Treaty; this was to receipt for
the Cannon on the Forts on condition that receipts should also be
given for the transportation furnished for Civil Officers, Servants &c.
and provisions, not provided for by the express letter of the 7” Article.
Giving it, at the same time to be distinctly understood that the United
States should by no act of mine be considered as abandoning their right
to the Cannon as part of the appendages of the Forts. An inventory
of the munitions of War, embraced in their claim was to be taken, and
the receipt to specify that they had been received with the Forts, but
claimed by the Spanish commissioner as not included in the cession,
and to be held by the American agents, subject to any future disposi-
tion which might be made by the respective Governments; The Span-
ish Commissioner to receipt for provisions, transportation of families
of Officers, Civil Officers &c. in the same form and the Governor dis-
tinctly informed that in case the Spanish Government insisted upon
the delivery of the one the U. States would insist upon payment for
the other. Capt. Call was also instructed in case this proposed ar-
rangement, should not prove satisfactory, to refuse transportion for
every thing not literally included in the 7” Article of the Treaty, and
at the same time to protest against the dismantling the Forts, as an
act on the Governors own responsibility, and as a violation of the Sec-
ond Article of the Treaty. As an evidence of my desire to settle the
business in the most satisfactory and amicable manner, Cap" Call was
instructed to comply with the Governors request for transportation of
two Field-pieces from St. Marks and some ordinance Stores. In the
same letter I informed the Governor of my intention to move in a few
days into the vicinity of Pensacola. I also gave him to understand
that the Transports deemed necessary had been provided and might
shortly be expected in Pensacola.
On the 16" of June after an unpleasant journey on account of the
unusual rains which had prevailed for a considerable time, I arrived
* NA (loc. cit.), printed ibid., pp. 69–70.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 143
at the House of Manuel Gonzales distant fifteen miles from Pensacola,
where I intended to await the arrival of the Troops and to remain
until I had officially announced to the Governor my entrance into the
Floridas for the purpose of receiving possession, as Commissioner on
the part of the United States. On the day of my arrival at Manuels
I wrote to the Governor * by Col: Gadsden informing him of my
arrival at that place, prepared to accomplish the object of my com-
mission. I expressed a wish that a period as early as possible might
be concluded on to our mutual convenience when we might meet,
exhibit our credentials, officially recognize each other and enter on
the duties of our respective Commissions. I stated that Col: Gadsden
was authorised by me to take charge of any communications from
him and to concert the arrangements connected with the proposition
made. On the same evening I received a long letter dated of that
day, from the Governor,” in answer to mine, on the subject of the
construction of the Treaty, with a few lines on the envelope, informing
me, that but for his ill state of health he would have done himself the
pleasure of waiting on me in person. My reply dated the 17* *
contains a brief refutation of his reasoning, and an expression of my
unwilliness to induce him to depart from the positive instructions
which he informed me he had received. I concluded by observing
that when I should have the pleasure of seeing him personally, I
should hope to make an arrangement agreeably to the instructions
given to Cap" Call, and which he had communicated to him, and
which will refer the subjects of difference to be adjusted by our
respective Governments.
The situation of the Troops now encamped near Manuals was
inconvenient on account of the distance from their supplies. There
were many reasons strongly requiring that the American Flag should
be hoisted in Pensacola without delay; American vessels were arriving
and were expected to arrive which had sailed from Ports of the
U. States under the faith of the expected surrender, and which would
be exposed to the payment of heavy duties through the means of an
arbitrary valuation; there had been a great increase of American
population and which was augmenting every day, and the state of
things incident to a country so nearly on the point of being transferred
forever to the dominion of a nother Nation may be readily conceived:
added to all this, the neglect of the police which I was informed existed
in Pensacola, and attention to which is so important to a place that
must be indebted to this circumstance perhaps more than to any
other, for its future growth. Under all these circumstances I au-
thorised Col: Gadsden to make the proposition mentioned in his letter
* June 16, 1821, ante, p. 73.
** Ante, p. 74.
*NA (loc. cit.), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 70–71.



144 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
of the 18** in the hope that it might possibly meet the approbation
of Governor Callava, but without intending to insist upon it. From
the other part of Col: Gadsdens letter it will be seen that it was my
wish, a time and place might be designated at which we might meet,
recognize each other and enter on the business of our respective
Commissions. A misapprehension occured on this subject which was
not explained until the close of our correspondence. Not receiving
such an invitation as I thought I had a right to expect, and not being
visited by the Governor or any of his Officers, I concluded to remain
with my family where I was, and as the Governor had officially
recognized me as commissioner, I resolved to carry on the preparatory
negotiation by means of my Staff.
I received another letter from the Governor on the 19* * together
with his letter to Col: Gadsden.” I refer you to my reply of the day
following * in which I enter into a full and explicit statement of what
I conceived to have been misunderstood. In the course of that com-
munication after enumerating some of the more urgent reasons on
my part for obtaining a speedy delivery of West Florida, I requested
him to state in how many days after the arrival of the Troops from St.
Marks he would be prepared to evacuate the Floridas. Imentioned the
circumstance of one of the Transports the Anna Maria having ar-
rived some time before, the Cora having unfortunately been cast
away near the Balize, but that prompt measures had been taken to
remedy the misfortune. In the same communication I informed the
Governor of the appointment of Major Stanton to discharge the
duties attendant on the transportation of the Spanish Troops and to
concert the necessary measures for their comfort. In the concluding
observations of my letter I regretted the existing difference respect-
ing the construction of any Articles of the Treaty, the stipulations of
which we were in part commissioned to execute. I received on the
22" the Governors letter of that date * together with the one of the
20** enclosing several propositions relating to preliminary arrange-
ments for the surrender of the Country and the Fortifications of
Barrancas. In the letter of the 22" he informed me that Don Alba
was merely the bearer of despatches from the Captain General, and
clothed with no official character, in relation to the Floridas, and de-
clared himself to be the Commissioner. He waved the exhibition of
my commission for the present, but requested an attested copy,
which was accordingly sent. In reply to my request of appointing
** To Callava, ante, p. 77.
* NA (loc. cit.), printed, in translation, in Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 71.
* June 19, ante, p. 82.
* NA (loc. cit.), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 72–74.
* NA (loc. cit.), printed, in English translation, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 74–76.
57 NA (loc. cit.), not printed.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 145
a day after the arrival of the Troops from St. Marks for the delivery
of West Florida, he stated that as soon as the Garrison of Appalache
should reach Pensacola, and the transports should be ready, he con-
sidered four or six days at the utmost as sufficient for the delivery of
it, the embarkation of the equipage, Troops and other individuals;
whence he declared that I might now consider the time solicited by
me to be fixed. The subject of the Artillery was again touched upon
in his letter, when I had flattered myself with a hope that it had been
well understood and settled. The Artillery and its appendages he
informed me could not be submitted to any kind of compromise, such
at least was the meaning given to the Spanish expressions, no puedo
yo sugetarlo à ningun clase de compromiso. Not a little surprised
at what appeared to me little short of equivocation; on the receipt of
it, I experienced no small degree of mortification. I called upon Cap'
Call for his report, whether he had not communicated to Governor
Callava, my Instructions given him in relation to this subject, and
immediately upon receiving his report, to which I beg leave to refer
you,” I addressed Governor Callava my communication of the 23* *
in which I deemed it necessary to recapitulate what I had said on the
subject of the construction of the second and Seventh Articles of the
Treaty, and in order to prevent any future misunderstanding I re-
duced the subject to this—two distinct propositions.
1st. That an Inventory of the Cannon, munitions of War &c. &c.
belonging to the Fortifications ceded should be taken and signed by
the proper Officers authorised to do so, with a remark that said
Cannon, ordinance &c. were claimed by him but left in my possession,
subject to any future disposition which might be made of them by
our respective Governments.
2nd. That an Inventory of the transportation of families of Officers
and Servants, and provisions placed on board of the Transports for
the supply of the Troops on their voyage should be made out and
certified by you as furnished by me.
I observed that these were the propositions to which I had sup-
posed he had assented, and that they corresponded with the instruc-
tions given to Cap" Call. I had now hoped the subject was under-
stood and at rest. In the Governors reply of the 25** he acknowl-
edges himself to be well acquainted with the tenor of the particulars
which it embraces, and particularly with that part which relates to
the Artillery, he declares that no mistake could have occurred in the
account given by him to the Minister of his Catholick Majesty at
Washington, and in the concluding part of his letter he observes that
* June 23, 1821, present and printed in Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 78.
* Present and printed ibid., pp. 76–78.
* Present and printed, in translation, ibid., pp. 78–81.
301867—57—11



146 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
no objection, or remark, offers itself to giving me a certificate setting
forth the number of persons transported, and of the provisions
supplied them for their voyage.
A Short correspondence to which I refer you, had at the same
time taken place respecting the transmission to St. Augustine of
the necessary Orders for the delivery of that place. I refer you also
to my letter to Col: Forbes" and his reply.” The length to which
this communication has already been unavoidably drawn out pre-
cludes me from making any remarks at present on this business.
The circumstance however added to the necessity of despatching
Col: Gadsden to St. Augustine, and preparatory to this I prepared
the letter to Col: Butler,” the Commission to Mr Worthington *
and letter to that Gentleman,” with other documents referred to, and
of which I gave an account in my letter to you of the 29* of June *
In that letter you will perceive my understanding respecting the
provisional arrangement on the subject of the disputed Articles of
the Treaty clearly and fully expressed. I refer you to the correspond-
ence between the Governor and myself previous to that date and
after the 25* This tedious length of correspondence in settling so
many matters of detail, as well as of greater importance, was what I
had not expected, and in the then state of my health, was extremely
fatiguing. In my letter of the 26** I expressed my satisfaction
that we had not misunderstood each other on the subject of the
Artillery &c. &c. By good fortune, when much at a loss for a mode
of conveyance for Col: Gadsden, the extraordinary rains having
rendered the passage across the Country almost impracticable, the
U. States Schooner Revenge entered this Port and was instantly
put in requisition for the service above mentioned. Mr Forbes, and
Don Alba, or rather the Governor in his behalf solicited a passage,
but on being informed that the vessel was extremely small, having,
but one birth, which the Commander had given up to Col: Gadsden
I could not consent: Col: Forbes however, embarked without my
consent, knowledge or approbation.
I refer you to my letters of the 1* of July * for several preliminary
arrangements proposed and acceded to respecting the preparation
of the Process Verbal, the ceremony to be observed in changing the
* June 24, 1821, ante, p. 89.
* June 25, 1821, ante, p. 95.
* June 26, 1821, ante, p. 97.
* July 1, 1821, ante, p. 104.
* June 25, 1821, ante, p. 91.
* Printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 82–84, from original in NA (SD, Misc.
Lets.).
* Printed op. cit., p. 81, from copy enclosed in above letter.
* Two letters, printed ibid., pp. 85–86, from enclosed copies.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 147
Flag,” and the appointment of Mess” Call Bronaugh and Bracken-
ridge to unite with the like number of persons to be appointed by the
Governor to examine and compare the Inventories of Archives, and
Public buildings & Property.” Major Stanton had been appointed
for the same service in relation to the artillery and the taking of the
Inventory and receipt for the provisions and transportation of Civil
Officers &c. &c.
By letter of the 3" of July " I communicated to the Governor the
arrival of Ship “Lucy ann,” chartered in the room of the “Cora.” I
intimated that I hoped no delay would occur on the arrival of the
Wessels from St. Marks, or the embarkation of the Spanish Troops &c.
On board the transports then ready and the surrender of the Country,
that the vessels were under a heavy demurrage, and that I relied on
his pledge that no unnecessary delay would be permitted on the arrival
of the Transports. The accident of the loss of the Cora, and the un-
usual detention of the vessels from St. Marks, by contrary winds, had
already given the Governor much longer time than he could possibly
have calculated on, when he gave me the pledge already mentioned.
Every day which now passed was so much gained on the other side,
and a heavy expence to the United States. Instead of three or four
days the usual voyage from St. Marks to this place, the vessels were
detained by adverse winds thirteen days, and at length arrived at
Pensacola on the morning of the 9” of July. This event I communi-
cated without loss of time to the Governor by my letter of the 9” ”
and requested him to appoint a day for the delivery of West Florida
with the Fortress of St. Marks according to the agreement previously
entered into between us. I had been unremitted in my endeavors, as
I think will fully appear by the correspondence, to leave nothing un-
settled on the arrival of the vessels from St. Marks so as to permit no
possible excuse for delay, as the Hornet had been here a month already
Owing to the unlooked for loss of the Cora and the extraordinary
prevalence of Westerly Winds, which prevented the arrival of the
vessels just mentioned. For my correspondence with Major Fan-
ning ” I also refer to the accompanying documents. I also send you
a copy of the orders issued by me to Col: Brooke “preparatory to the
march of the Troops to Galvez Spring. My intention of moving to
Some convenient spot near Pensacola immediately before taking
possession of West Florida had already been intimated to the Governor
* Ante, p. 108.
”See Jackson to Callava, June 30, 1821 (Bassett, ed., op. cit., p. 84), notifying
Callava of the appointments in question.
* Printed ibid., pp. 86–87, from enclosed copy.
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vi); not printed.
* May 22, June 27, and July 10, 1821, ante, pp. 53, 101, 109.
"Ante, p. - -



148 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
and assented to. In answer to my request the Governor in his letter
of the tenth ** informed me that on the day following he would name
a day in conformity with his pledge. But on the day following, to
my astonishment he informed me by his letter of the 11” ” that on
Saturday the 14* he would inform me whether the surrender should
be made on the Monday or Tuesday following: both of these days
beyond the latest period fixed upon for the delivery. I confess I
could not but feel considerable irritation, for it seemed to me that if I
permitted him to disregard his pledge at will in one particular, there
was no knowing what was next to follow. I was disappointed in what
I had confidently expected, and under these feelings addressed him
my letter of the 12* of July.” The Troops had marched the day
before to Galvez Spring, and were on that day joined by me at that
place. To the Governors letter of the 13" " and my reply of the
same date "I must beg leave to refer you. I sincerely regretted the
unpleasant feeling occasioned by the circumstance I have detailed, but
I acted under a sense of duty and a firm conviction of the necessity of
the course pursued. The Governor fixed upon the 17* as the day for
the delivery, unequivocally and without reserve, and in my letter of
that date I advised you " of my having obtained possession of West
Florida.
I had reposed in the utmost confidence after the friendly and
satisfactory manner in which the delivery was made on the 17* that
the business was finally closed in the way I could have desired. But
in this, I regret to say; I have been disappointed. On the day just
mentioned, all papers, Inventories &c. were duly prepared for signa-
ture on either side, excepting the Inventory & receipt for provisions
&c. not expressly stipulated for under the 7" Article of the Treaty.
On the morning of the 17* Major Stanton informed me that he had
been waited on by Mr Cruzat the Governors Secretary, who on the
part of the Governor, stated, that from ill health, and press of business,
he was notable to attend to the Inventory at that time, and requesting
that it might be deferred, pledging himself that it should be made
out in conformity with the agreement, and satisfactory to me. When
this request was reported to me, I confess I was not a little surprised,
and in spite of the high opinion which my Officers entertained of
Governor Callava, and my own sincere wish to cherish the same opin-
7° NA (loc. cit.), printed Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 91–92.
76 Do., printed ibid., p. 92.
77 Do., printed ibid., pp. 92–94.
78 Do., printed ibid., pp. 94–98.
79 Do., printed ibid., pp. 98–99. Jackson wrote a second letter of the same date
in reply to a second note from Callava of July 13 (loc. cit.), also printed ibid.,
pp. 99–100.
80 NA (loc. cit.), printed ibid., pp. 104–105.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 149
ion, the recollection of the conduct we have on so many occasions
experienced from Spanish functionaries, and particularly the conduct
of Governor Folk º' towards Mess” Ellicot ** and Hawkins; * rendered
it impossible for me entirely to divest my mind of distrust. I had
constantly cautioned those under my orders to be on their guard,
and on this occasion I observed to M' Stanton, who it will be seen
by the accompanying documents had been fully instructed on the
subject, that if he could place confidence in the promises of the Gov-
ernor and his Secretary I had no objection to the indulgence. After
the Governor was restored to better health and walking about the
Town, I urged Major Stanton to obtain the Inventory and receipt,
in order that I might close my communication to the Government.
After a delay of some days a receipt was presented to me, which on
being translated, I found with indignation, to be a simple acknowledge-
ment that the transportation and provisions had been furnished by
the U. States in compliance with the stipulations of the 7” Article of
the Treaty. I immediately informed Major Stanton that such a
thing could not be received, and ordered him to call on Mr. Cruzat
and procure the kind of receipt agreed upon in our correspondence,
and which he had pledged himself should be given. After a lapse of
ten days, the note to Major Stanton from M'Cruzat was presented
to me,” in which I am informed that no other receipt than the one
which the Governor choose to offer would be given. I immediately
appointed Doctor Bronaugh to wait on Governor Callava in company
with Major Stanton and demand a receipt in strict & literal conformity
with my letter of the 23" of June * and assented to in his letter of
the 25** I refer you to the report of those Gentlemen, by which it
will be seen that he utterly refused. I then addressed him my letter
of the 3” of August * declaring in the most explicit manner that in
consequence of his faithless conduct the receipt given by me for the
Artillery is null and void, and that I should so report it to my Gov-
ernment, the execution of the one, being the consideration of the other.
The conduct of Governor Callava has mortified me exceedingly,
especially as I had wished to think well of him, and as he had been
uniformly represented to me as a frank, honorable soldier; I cannot
si Vizente Folch y Juan, governor of Spanish West Florida, 1795–1811 (Terr.
Papers, Orleans, Ix, index, and ibid., Miss., V, VI, indexes).
* Andrew Ellicott, U. S. commissioner for surveying the boundary between
the United States and Florida, 1796–1800 (ibid., index; Peter J. Hamilton,
Colonial Mobile [Mobile, New York, 1897], pp. 294–296).
* Benjarºin Hawkins, U. S. agent to the Creek Indians, 1796–1816. See
M. B. Pound, Benj. Hawkins (Athens, Ga., 1951), pp. 131–135.
* NA (loc. cit.), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., p. 107, n.
* Do., printed ibid., pp. 76–78.
* Do., printed ibid., pp. 78–81.
* Do., printed ibid., pp. 108–111.



150 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
but view his refusal under the circumstances detailed as a most
base and flagrant breach of faith. To prove that there could have
been no misunderstanding on the score of translations I beg leave
to refer you to the Certificate of Mess' Brackenridge and Rutledge.”
I now proceed to lay before you the measures adopted by me for the
Government of East and West Florida in the best manner possible for
the present. In this Province the Government like every thing else
was in a state of dismemberment and neglect. The circumstance of
being on the eve of a transfer to the United States occasioned a total
indifference and carelessness in the administration of all its branches.
For a more minute account I refer you to the report of Judge Bracken-
ridge * and to the ordinances herewith sent.” According to the
Spanish scheme of municipal administration, there ought to have
been an Alcade, a Judge de Partido, a Fiscal, a Cabildo or Corporation,
and Alguazils or Sheriff and Constables. At Pensacola none of these
Offices were filled except that of the Alcade, who was the only Civil
Provincial Officer, properly speaking in West Florida. To limp along
with this maimed and imperfect state, seemed to me intolerable.
On consultation with an eminent Lawyer from New Orleans, who was
present at the change of Government there, and also with Judge
Brackenridge a Gentleman of high legal acquirements, who was in
Louisiana sometime after, I resolved, without going as far as I under-
stood the Governor of that Province had gone, to fill up those Offices
which I found vacant, and to make such alterations as seemed to me
absolutely called for by the mere circumstance of the cessation of the
Government of Spain, and the extension of that of the United States
over the Country. The first Ordinance * establishes the Corporation,
to which this place under the Spanish Constitution is entitled. The
great accession of population, and the neglect of the police for the
last two years, called for a body exclusively entrusted with its super-
intendance. Their powers conform to those which they would have
possessed under the Spanish Government. The Taxes which they are
authorised to lay, are such as have been usually paid. The Board of
Health was peculiarly necessary from the vital importance to this
place, to preserve its character for salubrity. The Ordinance relating
to the registering the names of those who may be desirous of claiming
the benefit of the sixth article of the Treaty, was dictated, first by the
necessity of affording some evidence which could be used by those
who were at once disposed to make their election and become Citizens
of the United States, and without which they would still be regarded
as foreigners, and secondly by the impropriety, of which, I had no
* Not seen.
** July 26, 1821, present as enclosure, and printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 902–908.
* Present, printed ibid., pp. 903–906. -
* For list of ordinances, see post, p. 156, n.



F L OR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 151
little experience in Louisiana, of persons claiming exemption as
foreigners, and the privileges of Citizens as it suited their convenience.
The establishment of a County Court, by adding four Justices of
the Peace to the Presiding Judge was with a view to the police of the
County, as that of the City was entrusted to the Corporation, and
also for the trial of offences against the public peace and happiness.
The Presentments, and trial by Jury are both in the contemplation
of the Spanish Constitution, as well as that of the U. States. The
Ordinance regulating the proceedings in the Court in civil cases, rather
makes known, the Spanish proceedure than establishes any thing new
to the Spanish law, excepting the pronouncing final judgment in
public on set days, and requiring the witnesses to give evidence viva
VOce when their attendance can be procured. The appointment of
Justices of the Peace was so necessary a measure, particularly in the
remote settlements, which are rapidly increasing, that it seems
Scarcely necessary to say any thing on the subject—It must be recol-
lected that much the greater part of the population of this country
is American, that the action commenced is carried on by Americans,
and hence the necessity of assimilating the present institution to
Something which they can understand, and of administering the laws
by means of tribunals not altogether foreign to their habits and feel-
ings. The distance from the seat of Government is a great incon-
venience, as months must elapse before any suggested alterations can
be approved and put in operation. I believe the alterations which I
have made, unimportant as they are, strictly conform to my instruc-
tions, and are certainly indispensable, unless all civil Government
should be suspended for the present. Col: Butler informs me that
the municipal organization was more complete at St. Augustine; that
beside the Alcade, there was a Judge, and a Cabildo or Corporation,
but little change will therefore be necessary in that quarter. The
Commission under which I act does not define my powers, and I
assure you I am not a little at a loss when left to collect them from
the nature of the office. Judging from the practice in Spanish Colo-
nies, the Viceroy or Captain General, possesses legislative, as well as
the executive powers over the Provinces placed under his Govern-
ment: Oreilly in Louisiana of his own authority, introduced the Span-
ish law, and established tribunals exactly modeled after those of Spain.
But according to the decrees passed under the constitution, those
Officers are strictly confined to the exercise of military and executive,
or political power; and the Intendants are exclusively intrusted with
the superintendance of the Revenue and public property; the former
is excepted by the act of Congress. In this uncertainty I have con-
tented myself with merely organizing a Government from the ma-
terials at hand, with as little change as possible, promulgating the
same, by way of Ordinance in order that the people may have some



152 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
knowledge of the system to to which they must conform.” These
Ordinances I now transmit for the approval of the President.
From the report of Judge Brackenridge it will be seen, that the
only public documents or Archives delivered over, are those which in
the first place belong to the Notarial Office, consisting of transfers of
land from individuals, powers of attorney, protests, wills, and other
acts, which in Spanish Countries appertain to the duties of Notary.
An Inventory of the unbound Books containing these acts, is trans-
mitted, giving the year and number of pages of each book. In pur-
suance of my directions, they were marked by Mess” Call, Bronaugh
and Brackenridge (who were appointed to compare them with the
Inventory) with a letter of the Alphabet, and signed, in order that
they may be identified. In the second place, the archives of the
Alcades office, and which consist of the papers in suits, from the year
1781. down to the present time, and are very voluminous, but many
of them, it is supposed, have been withdrawn, or sent to Havanna,
and as there is no Docket, or book containing a record of those papers,
being considered themselves as the records, it is extremely difficult
to detect any fraud with respect to them. There are no original
grants, Surveys, Maps, or even a plat of the City. It is well known
that all these papers are at Havanna in the possession of the late
Surveyor General Pintado, in whose transcripts of title papers, I do
not think any reliance ought to be placed. Having the Archives in
his possession, he gives authenticated Copies, and states himself in
the Certificates, to be duly authorised to do so. From this Shop it
is probable that a number of such titles were transmitted to this
Country, by the Hornet. I am confident that very extensive frauds
have been attempted, this opinion is dayly strengthened by observa-
tion, and I think it highly important that persons of integrity and
intelligence should be appointed to sift them. The failure to obtain
the archives at Havanna, will be seriously felt by the honest inhabi-
tants of the Country, and will call for more than usual vigilance and
attention on the part of the Government to prevent frauds in anti-
dated titles. The conduct of the Captain General in relation to the
Archives, but too well confirms the opinion which I entertained of
Spanish functionaries, at least so far as we have had any thing to do
with them.
The report of Major Stanton,” and the Inventory of Artillery &c.
receipted for, will shew the value of those articles. Every thing how-
ever worthless has been brought forward in order to swell that Inven-
tory to an imposing magnitude. I am well satisfied that with the
* See act approved Mar. 3, 1821, ante, p. 5.
* Stanton's covering letter of Aug. 2, 1821, an enclosure in the above letter,
is printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 106–107. His enclosed report, also present,
respecting artillery, provisions et cetera, is not printed.
º



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 153
exception of two Brass pieces at the Barrancas, and two Mortars and
three Howitzers, the Cannon left with us, is scarcely worth possessing.
The Artillery at St. Marks is literally worthless, and I am of opinion
that the value of the whole does not much exceed the extra transporta-
tion and the provisions which have been furnished, and not expressly
stipulated for by the Treaty. Major Stantons report * will also shew
the condition of the public buildings. The Government House is in a
ruinous state; I intended at first to occupy it myself, but on examina-
tion it was considered unsafe. It is a frame building, no way remark-
able for its structure, and at present entirely out of repair and in some
parts rudely propped with unhewn timber. It has been taken by the
Officers for Quarters, by which there has been a considerable saving
to the Government. The Block-Houses were the most filthy and dis-
gusting places imaginable, but with some pains they have been fitted
up in such a manner as to afford quarters for the Troops.
The Hospital, which is but a very ordinary building, was in a con-
dition equally disgusting, but has been rendered fit for use by the
exertions of the Officers. The prison is in a tolerable state of repair,
but is a very poor building; all the rest are uninhabitable. The Bar-
racks are said to have cost the British Government a large sum of
money. The frame is still sound, the basement story is of brick; but
the doors and windows have been torn off, the roof is decayed and in
part fallen in. Unless something be done in the course of a few months,
it will be necessary to pull it down, as it will become a dangerous
nuisance. The expence of repairing it will not be less than from twelve
to fifteen thousand Dollars. Proposals have been made to me by a
Major Edwards, to repair it, at his own expence, on condition that he
shall have the use of it for six years. The offer appears to me a very
advantageous one to the U. States. But possessing no power to enter
into it, I could do nothing more than to forward his proposals for the
consideration of the President, with a request that an answer may be
given as speedily as possible.
In my appointments to Office I was desirous of giving the preference
where I could, to the old inhabitants of the Country: I found that
but few were willing to accept any situation, from unwillingness
to lose their rights as Spanish subjects, the greater part having been
in some way or other connected with the Government, or having
private claims which might be prejudiced by doing any act evincing
their intention to become American Citizens. Besides, it is said,
that strong inducements are held out by the Spanish Government
to those who remove. The former Alcade was a half pay Officer
and of course could not be continued. The inhabitants in general, I
have found a sober, orderly, peaceable and well meaning people.
* July 30, 1821 (infra), a second report to Jackson.



154 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
I entertain a very favorable opinion of all the Spanish population,
excepting of such as have been employed by the Government which
seems to have had every where the same corrupting influence over the
minds and morals of those engaged in its administration.
I have confined myself in this communication to the subject of my
Commission for receiving the Floridas,” and to the mere organization
of the Government, reserving for a future & final communication the
information which I may possess in relation to the Country in general.
The arrival of Col: Butler from St. Augustine, and whose report is
transmitted in another communication,” has happily enabled me to
close the business of my Commission; this I hope, has been done in
such a manner as to meet the approbation of my Government.
I have the honor to be, Sir, with gº consideration & respect Yº M.”
Obt Serv't
ANDREW JACKSON
Commissioner for receiving the Floridas &
Gov. of the same
P.S. August 14* 1821.-The foregoing communication was com-
menced on the day of its date, but was delayed several days by inability
to close the business of the Inventory for the provisions &c. &c. and
after by unavoidable causes.” A. J.-
THE HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State
[Endorsed] Recd 10th Sep.”
** Ante, p. 8.
* Post, p. 165.
*7 Jackson's activities during the period March–July (inclusive) 1821, relative
to the receipt of the Floridas and the actual transfer of sovereignty, are already
extensively documented in print. Limitation of space requires the omission of
much material, except key documents such as the above, in order to include un-
published selections concerning the organized territory after 1822. The Presi-
dent's message to Congress, Dec. 3, 1821 (Richardson, comp., Messages and
Papers, II, 667-678), in addition to embodying pertinent comments concerning
the transfer of the Floridas, was accompanied by numerous relevant papers which
are reproduced in the following publications: S. Doc. 1, 17 Cong., 1 sess.; H. Doc.
1, 17 Cong., 1 sess.; and A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 740–808. Relevant documents
are likewise found ibid., Misc., II, 896–909. A few of the letters and documents in
question are also reproduced in Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 42–142. A letter
from Jackson to Call, May 11, 1821, is in Brevard, Hist. Fla., I, 260–261. Some
forty-five unprinted letters between Jackson and Callava, Callava and Jack-
son's subordinates, and Jackson and his subordinates are in NA (SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, v and vi); these are listed, with other items, in Parker, Calendar, pp.
69–74. In LC (Jackson Papers) are a few letters not found elsewhere, in-
cluding the following pertinent items: Jackson to Gaines, Apr. 2, 1821, to Gads-
den, Apr. 12, 1821, to the Secretary of War, Apr 14, 1821; Bronaugh and
Brackenridge to Jackson, May 3, 1821, and to Callava, May 4, 1821; Stanton to
Jackson, June 25, July 2, and July 5, 1821; Brackenridge to Jackson, July 4, 1821;
and statement of Spanish personnel transported to Havana, July 17, 1821.
* Acknowledged post, p. 260.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 155
HENRY STANTON TO GOVERNOR JACKSON 99
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI:ALS)
Quarter Masters Office PENSACOLA July 30" 1821
SIR, In obedience to your Excellency's order of the 28 instant,"
directing me to make a report in writing to your Excellency of all the
public buildings turned over by Don José Callava and the State of
repair which they are in”. –I have, as far as practicable, examined
those situated in Pensacola; and have now the honor of communicating
to your Excellency their number and condition; taken in the order in
which they are entered in the Inventory furnished by the late Spanish
Authorities
Barracks: A building situated to the east of the Government
House; and a short distance from the same: One hundred fifty six
and a half feet long, by forty six and a half feet wide—three stories
in highth—the basement story of Brick with floors of the same—the
others of wood—the whole much dilapidated. The doors and windows
have been destroyed. The Galleries which formerly surrounded the
edifice have entirely disappeared. The roofs in several places is
decayed and fallen in—The projection of the roof deprived of the
support of the timbers of the galleries is on one side hanging in broken
fragments. The roof and floor timbers much decayed. The weather
boards in some places together with the plastering of the interior have
been torn off; and the whole of the appartments exposed to the injuries
of the weather; and in a most filthy condition— -
It is extremely difficult, if not impossible to ascertain the sum that
would be required to put this building in a state of complete repair;
but from what I can learn of the price of materials and labour, it
cannot be done; in my opinion for less than eight thousand dollars,
unless the public Artificers and labourers from the troops were
employed in procuring the necessary materials; and in effecting the
work: In which case the expense would be comparitively small—
The Government House. Twenty nine feet by eighteen of three
stories. The Basement story of brick, the others of wood slightly
built (surrounded by broad Piazzas) but in decent repair; and affords
convenient quarters for most of the officers of the Garrison. The
Mess House and Kitchen situated near the Government House, is
also in decent repair The Stables out of repair
The buildings which constitute the Hospital are four in number,
situated on the corner of [blank] Street adjoining the lot occupied by
José Rock—one forty eight feet by thirty six, another forty feet by
twenty two, both of wood, indifferently constructed—Two small
buildings used as Kitchens also of wood. The labour of a few Artificers
* Enclosed in letter of July 30, 1821, supra.
1 Not found.



156 T E R R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
for a short time, will be able to effect the necessary repairs on those
Buildings
Four Block Houses situated on the public place, Thirty feet and a
half square, constructed of logs, on brick foundations are, with the
exception of one situated near the church, much decayed. Artificers
are now employed in effecting such repairs as will render them con-
venient quarters for the four companies of Infantry composing the
Garrison of Pensacola. The expense of doing which, will not be very
considerable. The four buildings denominated in the Inventory.
Guard Houses contiguous to the Block Houses require considerable
repairs. They are to be occupied as Kitchens and company store-
houses—
A wooden Building situated on the Bay, and to the east of Tivoli
seventy four feet by twenty seven, formerly used as Dragoons quarters,
in a decayed state; and not worth repairing.
Three Block Houses situated without the town, Built of Logs each
twenty three feet square. They require no repairs.
I have the honor to be very respectfully, Sir, Your mo ob Serv.
HENRY STANTON Quarter Master U. S. A
HIS EXCELLENCY MAJ' GEN'JACKSON. Gov of the Floridas &c. &c.
[Endorsed] Report of public buildings in the Town of Pensacola
By Major Staunton & how occupied—July 30° 1821. to accompany
the report to the Sec of the State—with Genl. Jackson's No 1 30 July
Quarter Master Staunton to Gen' Jackson—
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:LS 2]
PENSACOLA August 4* 1821
D* SIR, Having advised you through the Secretary of State that I
had taken possession of West Florida and its dependencies on the 17th
instant,” since which period I have been constantly engaged in estab-
lishing by ordinances such a system of Government," as the Laws,
* A copy is in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. O).
* July 17, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v). A copy is in LC (Jackson
Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M), printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 104–105,
and A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 764.
* The following ordinances were issued by Jackson at Pensacola:
1. Ordinance for the Preservation of the Good Order and Health of the Town
of Pensacola, July 18, 1821.
2. Ordinance for the Preservation of Health in the City of Pensacola, July 19,
1821.
3. Ordinance Prescribing the Mode of Carrying into Effect the Sixth Article
of the Treaty between the United States and Spain, July 21, 1821.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 157
usage and custom of Spain, a just regard to the real condition of this
country, and a strict conformity to your instructions, would authorise,
and which the peace, happiness and security of this newly acquired
Territory required; I have at length the pleasure to advise you, that
this laborious duty was closed on the 27" ultimo," and that on the day
following by a despatch-express over land #e-Sé-Atagüstine; the copies
of all proper ordinances with the commissions necessary to their
execution, were sent to St Augustine to W* G. Worthington, to whom
by Co' Gadsden on the first instant, I had transmitted a commission
clothing him with all the powers heretofore exercised by the Spanish
Governor, and fearful that Mº Worthington might not have arrived,
I also sent a blank commission provisionally to be filled in the absence
of M' W, in the name of the commanding officer of St Augustine." I
find that this was a wise precaution, as from a letter received from
Mr Worthington on yesterday the 26* July, dated Baltimore 30” of
June,” it appears that he thinks there cannot be any urgent necessity
for his presence in a short time. If there exists not a necessity for the
4. Ordinance Dividing the Floridas into Counties and Establishing Courts of
Justice Therein, July 21, 1821. This ordinance also prescribes the line of demar-
cation between East and West Florida.
5. Ordinance Explanatory of the Mode of Proceeding in the County Courts,
July 26, 1821.
6. Ordinance Regulating the Fees of Justices of the Peace, Aug. 21, 1821.
7. Ordinance Explanatory of the Ordinance for the Preservation of Health in
the City of Pensacola, Sept. 6, 1821.
Manuscript copies of 1 to 5, transmitted by Jackson to the Sec. of State, July
30, 1821 (ante, p. 137), are in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v and VI). A printed
copy of 6, transmitted by Jackson on Aug. 26 is loc. cit., VII, and a printed copy of
7, transmittal letter not determined, is ibid. Broadside printed copies of 1 to 4
(in English and Spanish), were transmitted by Worthington to the Sec. of State
on Aug. 28 (post, p. 192). Copies of 1 to 5 are in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and
Orders, Bk. M). In the Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 18, 1821, are printed 1, 2, and
4 in English, and 7 appears in the issue of Sept. 8. A receipt of Oct. 8, 1821,
signed by Cary Nicholas and George Tunstall, the publishers of the Floridian,
lists the Aug. 25 issue of that newspaper as having contained printings of the
ordinances in addition to the above (LC, Jackson Papers, Mil. Papers, XIII, 14).
That particular issue is no longer extant. Nos. 1 to 5 of the ordinances were
printed in Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 sess., cols. 2547—2555, and subse-
quently reprinted in A. S. P., Misc., II, 904–908.
The copies transmitted to the House by the Dept. of State are in NA (HF,
Orig. Repts., SD and PO, 17 Cong., 1 and 2 sess.). A facsimile reproduction of
the broadsides in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers) of 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7, edited by
Douglas C. McMurtrie, was published in Chicago in 1941 by the John Calhoun
Club with the title: Ordinances of the Provinces of the Floridas But Relating Speci-
fically to West Florida, as Proclaimed by Major General Andrew Jackson and
Printed in Broadside Form at Pensacola in 1821. For discussion of ordinances,
see ante, p. 137.
* See ante, p. 133.
* Ante, pp. 97, 115.
7 Not found.



158 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
presence of the Secretaries of the Floridas at this time, when the
Government is first in organization, when all commissions are to be
made out and attested, surely their services afterwards can be dis-
pensed with—Let me assure you that the absence of the officers
appointed,” has given rise to great labour to me, and considerable
expense to the Government, for clerks have been employed to do that
which should have been done by the Officers duly appointed by you.
The information of M* Worthington's being in Baltimore, and my
uncertainty as to the safe arrival of Co' Gadsden at St Augustine,
made it therefore necessary to communicate with St Augustine over
land, as in the absence of the one (M' W) and should any absehee
accident have detained the Co", there is no person there to administer
the Government, until the arrival of my express.
I this day enclose to Mº Adams, Secretary of State, a full report of
all my proceedings in taking possession of the Floridas,” and also as
Governor of the same after possession was had, with copies of the
ordinances established by me for the Government of the same, which
are forwarded for your approval and further instructions. You will
find from the report of Judge Brackenridge,” exercising the office of
Alcalde for the city of Pensacola, that I have in the organization kept
as close to the letter of my instructions as the situation of the country
would permit. The taxes to be laid on tavern licenses, Billiard tables,
Retailers of spirits &" &", by the city corporation and county Courts,
are such as have been laid under the Spanish Government, they being
the only source through which the necessary funds can be obtained, to
keep the springs, streets and canals of the Town in good repair, by
which the health of the city can be preserved. I have endeavoured
in my letter to the Secretary of State to explain through him to you,
the reasons for introducing every ordinance for the Government of the
Floridas, to which I beg leave be refer to you.
I should have closed these arduous duties fifteen days since, had it
not been for the treacherous and dishonorable conduct of Governor
Callava, in whom some of my officers had incautiously trusted and view-
ing him as a high minded-military man, in whose pledge of honor they
could place implicit reliance, did not for a moment suspect the decep-
tion and baseness which they have since experienced. I had entrusted
to Major Staunton, Quarter Master, the procurement of the trans-
* Capt. Richard K. Call served as Acting Secretary of West Florida. He was
paid the sum of $590 for this service for the period Apr. 14, 1821—Aug. 10, 1821
when he was relieved by George Walton who had been appointed on that date
(NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept., No. 2, p. 235, certified June 25, 1822).
"Ante, p. 137. It was not mailed, however, until August 14. See also undated
letter of Jackson to the Secretary of State, received Sept. 10, 1821, containing
other details regarding the problems confronting the United States in Florida,
found in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII), printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 908–909.
* Dated July 26, 1821, loc. cit., printed, ibid., pp. 902–908.
*|
º



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 159
portation and provisions; and of course when Governor Callava claimed
the right of taking from the fortifications their means of defence, I
claimed an exemption from the cost of provisions & transportation, of
civil officers, including the families and servants of both the civil and
military officers. The Governor proposed that the Ordnances &"
&"—should be inventoried and receipted for, to which I assented,
having the Provisions, transportation &" &" &° inventoried and
receipted for in the same manner, which was, and well understood, to be
agreed to and to be referred to our Governments, as you will see by
referring to our correspondence duly reported to Mº Adams and to
which I refer you. The duty of taking the Inventory and receipt, was
enjoined upon Major Staunton, as you will see by my letter of instruc-
tions of the 6* July,” and he had been verbally instructed and urged
by me to be particular on this subject, for although my officers had
great confidence in Governor Callava, I was too well acquainted with
the Spanish character and with the intrigue and duplicity exercised by
Govt Foulk with Ellicott and Co' Hawkins, to have any: I therefore
was particular in urging all concerned to beware, and do their duty
carefully. At length the 17* was fixed upon for delivery of the
country, and, as I supposed, all inventories and receipts ready for
execution on the morning of that day. Whilst on my march to Pen-
sacola, Majº Staunton reported to me * that M* Crusat "secretary of
Govt Callava, had reported to him, that the ill health of the Governor,
and great press of business had prevented him from having the inven-
tory of the provisions, transportation for civil officers, their families
and servants &° &", ready; but hoped that it would make no difference,
as the Gov' was to remain, and as soon as his health would permit, the
inventory and receipt should be made in comformity to the agreement
contained in our correspondence, and satisfactory to me. I replied to
the Major,” that he was responsible for this Inventory and receipt—
if he had full confidence that the pledge would be complied with, I had
no objection to this indulgence, as the Governor was ill—the Major re-
plying” that he had full confidence, the indulgence was granted.
A few days after, wishing to close my communications—the Governor
being apparently well and walking the Town—I directed Majº Staunton
to call upon him for a fulfilment of his engagement, and to my surprise
after ten days he refused, I could not believe it possible, I ordered
Doctor Bronough and Majº Staunton to wait upon him with an Inven-
* NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI); LC (Jackson Papers, Vol. 60); printed,
Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 89–90.
* Aug. 2, 1821, NA (loc. cit.), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 106–107.
in José Y. Cruzat.
1* Not found.
* Not found.



160 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
tory "precisely in the words of my letter of the 23° of June 17 to which
he had assented—He has refused however after this previous obligation,
as stated in the report of Bronough and Staunton, to which I refer
you.” I then wrote him my letter of the 3'," and have left him to
the reflections of his own conscience, and have a hope that my Govern-
ment will stamp his perfidy with such marks of displeasure as will
convince Spanish Officers hereafter to comply with their engagements
of honor.
Having finished the arduous and unpleasant duty of establishing and
putting in motion the Government in the Floridas I have a moment to
spare to reply to your letter of the 23° of May last.”
I have to remark that the Judicial districts established by you in the
Floridas are well arranged, and I have adopted them nearly in the
division of the two counties I have established for Judicial purposes.
As to the Gentlemen you have selected to fill the appointments in
the Floridas, not knowing any of them but Judge Duval and
Frommentin and those very slightly, I have no remark to make,
believing that you would appoint none to office, that you did not
believe competent and of good character. It is unfortunate that
sometimes you may be, as we all are, imposed upon—As to myself I
have only to say that I had a right to expect from the manner and
inducements under which I agreed to accept the office, that at least
the Secretary of West Florida would have been a man of my personal
acquaintance, and in whom I had confidence—had I not confidently
expected this, I should never have accepted the office; I feel however
happy that the objects which induced my acceptance are nearly
completed; the country has been received, the Government is organized
and when in complete operation I shall eagerly embrace the condition
which qualified my acceptance, which was, the liberty of retiring to
private life, and it may be, that in the selection of your officers you
had streh an eye to this contingency.
There are none of the officers appointed, yet arrived; except Judge
Frommentin, who reached me on the 27" ult", but not having his
commission cannot enter upon the duties of his office. I would not
be acting towards you with the faithfulness and candor of a friend,
did I not bring to your view the opinions expressed here of the
characters you have appointed as Judges—It is understood here that
M” Duval is a good private character, but of very moderate capacity
as a Lawyer—as to Mr Frommentin, his character is spoken of with
great freedom; it is said and that too by men of high standing here, and
10 Aug. 3, 1821, NA (loc. cit.); not printed.
17 Ibid., printed, Bassett (ed), op. cit., pp. 76–78.
18 NA (loc. cit.), not printed.
19 Ibid., printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 108–111.
20 Ante, p. 53.



F LOR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 161
those who have been here from New Orleans, that all are astonished
at his being appointed as a Judge, and it is publickly stated, that he
was brought up a Priest in France, at the downfall of the Bourbons
he fled from the republican reign—came to America—settled in
Maryland and married into a respectable family—removed to
Orleans and was there appointed a senator in Congress, and whilst
in that capacity on the restoration of the Bourbons, left his wife,
took up with a base woman, travelled publickly with her to Orleans,
and took her with him to 9rkeahs France where he repaired, as is
alledged and believed, to regain his Priesthood, disannul his marriage
and continue his intercourse secret with this base woman: But dis-
appointed in obtaining his Priesthood, he returned to America, con-
ceded to his wife, and returned again to Orleans with his—wife her,
where he resided until clothed with an agency under our Government
appertaining to the treaty with Spain, he came here, borrowed money,
which he failed duly to pay before he left here, for which suit was
brought against him, and in the Spanish form proceedings of a kind
of Outlawry were entered against him, all of which appear on record
and were posted on the corners of the houses when I arrived.
First impressions are always the most lasting, and it was of vital
importance to the future welfare and greatness of this country, that
in the first instance the Judiciary should have been filled, not only
by men of unspotted and unimpeached moral character, but men of
first standing in point of Legal Knowledge, securing them universal
confidence both in their talents and integrity, and freedom from the
suspicion of Bribery ahd or the capability of corruption—But what
confidence can these people have in a Judiciary, protecting their
moral and civil rights, in which the only Judge who presides, in his
private walks respects neither? I must confess since I have heard
this story (and it is freely spoken of and said to be publickly known)
I should not like to continue in the administration of the Government
with such an associate.
The first duty of all Executives to the countries over which they
preside, is to give to the people competent and fit persons to execute
the laws provided for the security of their lives, their liberties, their
reputations and their property; And I can assure you this confidence
does not exist either in the Spanish or American population here, in
the case of Judge Frommentin. Knowing this, I have viewed it as
my duty to you—as a friend to make it known, with the assurance
that I have no unfriendly feeling towards Mº Frommentin. He is a
polite, Gentlemanly man, but from the character given of him both
here and in Orleans, both as to his capacity as a Judge and his moral
character, I cannot confide in him—As to the rest of the Gentlemen
I have a good report; my only regret is, that they were not here to
aid me in the labours of organizing the Government. However, with
301867–56—12 -



162 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
the aid of my old and faithful companions Doctor Bronough Cap'
Call, with the assistance of Judge Brackenridge, whom I have found
intelligent and very useful from his general acquaintance with the
law, the Spanish language, usage and customs; I trust you will find
the Government organised with the sole view to the protection of the
citizen in all his rights secured under the Treaty and the constitution
of the United States—
You will find from the report of the Quartermaster, Majº Staunton,”
accompanying the report to the Secretary of State. that the public
buildings are in such a state of dilapidation, that it will not be in my
power to accommodate M* Smith.” and others as you have requested.
The Government House is the only one except the Block Houses
and the Hospital, that is inhabitable, and the Government House
was so unsafe that I gave it to the Quarter Master fer as the Quarters
of the Officers, and accepted in lieu thereof, the upper story of a House
for my self, family and suit, by which there is a saving to the Govern-
ment of upwards of one hundred dollars per month. The fine building
called the barracks is in a state of ruin; a proposition has been made
by a M. Edwards to repair it, for a lease of six years; the proposition
I think a beneficial one and ought to be acceded to on the part of the
Government; but having no power to accept it on the part of the
Government, his proposition and my letter to him, have been referred
to the Secretary of State,” to which I beg leave to draw your attention
and request your early reply—It will take from twelve to fifteen
thousand dollars to make the repairs offered to be made by M*
Edwards, and if not made by some one in four months, it will be in
such a state of ruin as will compel the corporation to pull it down,
to preserve the lives of the citizens, who are in constant danger when
passing under it.
I should here close this letter; but that justice to the military
character, which I hold dear, requires that I should brifly notice
the recommendation redteing the Army accompanying the Register
reducing the Army and recently made public. It is with extreme
* Ante, p. 155.
* Presumably William S. Smith, naval officer at Pensacola.
* Accompanying Jackson's letter to the Secretary of State, July 30, 1821
(ante, p. 137), is a memorial from Maj. Haden Edwards, July 24, and Jackson's
reply, July 27 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VI), which are not printed. Daniel
Brent informed Jackson, Sept. 18, 1821, that his suggestion relative to the barracks
at Pensacola had been approved by the President (NA, loc. cit., VII; LC, Jackson
Papers, Vol. 60). The President wrote the Secretary of War relative to the
condition of the buildings at Pensacola, and an examination of the defenses of
that place and measures for the repair of the buildings were undertaken by the
Engineer Department and the Quartermaster Department (undated letter of the
President registered in NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., 1821, which is missing from
the file; Alexander Macomb to Geo. M. Brooke, Sept. 25, 1821, NA, WD, CE
Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 1).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 163
regret, that I have met the initiation produced by this unmilitary
recommendation made by the board of Gen' Officers and promulgated
to the world, where six meritorious officers are to be removed from
place to place, reduced from grade to grade, and one driven out of
office, to give one favorite officer an election of offices; however
meritorious that officer might be, his merits cannot be superior
to some of those six officers whose military feelings have been excori-
ated by this unusual, unmilitary procedure which has not its equal
in military Annals. Gen' Atkinson is a favorite of mine, but still
general justice is due to all, and we have no record of that superior
display of Gen' Atkinson's military prowess, of battles won, and
countries saved, to justify such an election of offices, at the expense
of others who were distinguished in the late war, and who had the
honor in their country's cause to be engaged in more conflicts with
the enemy, than any of those who composed the Board of Gen!
Officers—I admit that it was due to Gen' Atkinson, that he should
be provided for; but just in the way that other meritorious officers
were; that one office should have been selected by the Board for
him, which he might have accepted or not, at his pleasure. Can
it have been supposed by this Board of high minded-military men,
that those six officers of equal high minds and military merit, could
ever brook the insult, and condescend to be drove from place to
place, from grade to grade and some out of office, to make way for
one individual not more meritorious than themselves? This could
not have been thought by those who formed the Board, and why
this recommendation has been published with the register, all military
men are at a loss to discover, unless it was still more to excoriate
the feelings of those six officers by holding forth Gen' Atkinson,
their superior, and that those ef six were retained out of mere special
favour, and placed at the disposal of the General. These military
men must either be devoid of military feeling themselves, or calculate
badly on the feelings of others. Can they expect others of equal
military merit to succumb to things, that they themselves as military
men would spurn? And let me ask, what will be the sensations of
the Public, when it is understood that this election of offices has been
given to one who has never fought one battle for his country, at the
expense of others who have fought many, and always obtained the
approbation of those who commanded them? To Gen' Gaines the
officers of this Division looked for protection, and how he will be
able to explain this, to the satisfaction of those Gentlemen, I cannot
say—Co' Taylor if I judge of him rightly, will resign and in short
none of those who were thus placed in the Register, can consistently
remain in the service; As for my own part before I would be thus
degraded I would grub for a subsistence. I can assure you it has
produced a general feeling of disapprobation, which I sensibly feel,



164 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
knowing the personal merits of several of those Gentlemen who de-
served to be better treated by their country in a more delicate manner
to say the least of it, for Gen' Atkinson could have been amply
provided for without placing this unmilitary thing upon the register,
or making any officers subordinate to his will ahd or election.
I have thought it my duty thus far to remark, that you might con-
sider the subject and extend justice to those men whose feelings are
much wounded by this unexampled procedure, and such as never
should have taken place without my public protest had I been one
of the Board.
Altho I have retired from the command of those brave and meri-
torious officers to the Prowess of many of whom I have borne testi-
mony in the hour of battle and of danger, I still feel for them.
With a tender of M** Jackson's and my best wishes for M" Munroe
and your amiable family, and with my great regard for your individual
happiness, I remain Sir with great respect. Yº Mo Obt Servant.
ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MUNROE President of the U States
Since commencing this letter Mº Walton has arrived, but has not
as yet entered upon the duties of his office Yº" Respectfully A. J.-
[Endorsed] Aug" 4 1821 Gen' Jackson—answ" in p' Sepr 17* *
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN R. BELL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR, 4: Aug 1821.
CAP JN". R. BELL. comma" at S*Augustine, E. Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 17* ultimo has been received.”
The measures you have taken for the repairs of the Fort and public
buildings at Sº Augustine are approved; but as the funds of the
Q" M** Dep" are low, you will execute them with as little expense
as possible.
The excursion of M*Intosh and his party into the country of the
Seminole Indians, was entirely unknown to this Department. I
presume it was intended merely for the purpose of plundering; but I
hope, that, if they should repeat their visit, the measures you propose
to take will put a stop to their proceedings.
The French gentleman to whom you refer, I think it probable is
M. Penieres, who was recommended to this Department as a gentle-
man eminent for his various acquirements, who, being forced from
* LC (Jackson Papers, 2d ser., Bk. 3), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., VI,
475–477). The date of the reply was actually Sept. 16.
* Ante., p. 125.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 165
France for political reasons, had selected this country for his resi-
dence, and who, in order to become intimately acquainted with the
Indian Character, had resided several years among the Indians in the
Arkansas Territory, and upon whom the President thought proper to
confer the appointment of Sub-agent for Indian affairs in Florida:
Under the authority of which appointment, I presume he is now
acting, conformably to the instructions which he has received from
this Department, and will therefore be respected accordingly. Gen.'
Jackson was duly informed of his appointment, and authorized to
give him such further instructions as he might think necessary.
You will assure the Indians that may visit S*Augustine, that the
views of the Government towards them are perfectly friendly, and
that so long as they conduct themselves peaceably, they will be
protected.
I have the honor &c. &c.
J.C.C.
ROBERT BUTLER TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii:ALS 29]
No 1 PENSACOLA August 8* 1821
To GEN" ANDREW JACKSON Governor of the Floridas
SIR. Pursuant to your orders transmitted me through Colo: James
Gadsden,” I have the honer to report my arrival at this place: and
take pleasure in informing you that I received and occupied the
Province of East Florida agreeably to your instructions on the 10*
day of July last "-
Accompanied you will receive a book containing the Correspondence
between Governor Coppinger as Commissioner & myself, in which the
preliminary arrangements for the delivery of the Province under the
treaty are set forth—and you will also receive the Official document
of the interchange of Authority formally executed, as will appear by
reference thereto.”
The receipt of Cap" J. R. Bell herewith inclosed "will apprize you
of what documents were received relating to the Sovereignty of that
Province—and those relating to private property are held by Governor
Coppinger at Augustine under his sacred pledge, subject to the
decision of the respective governments, as will appear from the
correspondence—
* Copy in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
27 Cf. ante, p. 97.
* Ante, p. 111.
* The enclosures mentioned are not present. See note re delivery of E. Fla.,
ante, p. 111, n., for citations to what are probably the same materials. Extracts
from a few of the documents are printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 797–798.
* Not present.



166 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PER S
I have also the satisfaction of handing you an Inventory of the
public property” of every description received by me accompanied with
plans & charts” of the same together with the Fortifications & public
edifices—I deem it necessary to inform you that I have forwarded for
the information of the Secretary of State copies of the correspondence
had on this subject together with an Official & original document of
interchange of the Authority & I submit for your perusal copies of
my letters to him of dates 11” “ & 13* Ult”—
Owing to the Absence of the Secretary appointed for East Florida,
I filled up the provisional commission transmitted me by you, with
the name of Cap" J. R. Bell as Commanding Officer & gave him such
instructions, as I deemed proper growing out of your communications
relative thereto;” copies of which he will transmit you—The docu-
ments destined for Mº Worthington were also handed over as instruc-
tions for Cap" Bell until the arrival of the former, when the provisional
appointment will cease—
I shall furnish you at an early day with the account of disburse-
ments made by me, all of which have their proper vouchers except for
those made in travelling & for which no vouchers could be obtained;
I have therefore to substitute my official certificate as to the am"
which will accompany the Acc" numbered as a voucher to that item—
The circumstances under which I left Tennessee; the season of the
year; added to immense rains which have almost kept the Southern
country inundated, have rendered my passage to Augustine, long,
dangerous, & fatiguing: and the recent trip to this place, although
not impeded by high waters, was necessaryly long, and very oppressive
from the heat of the weather, and state of the Country over which I
had to pass.
In the execution of the important duties with which you honered
me: I have adhered strictly to y' instructions as far as they were appli-
cable, & under such circumstances as they did not provide for, I
have been governed by that principle, adopted in early life, the preser-
vation of my countrys honer & scrupulously just to her interests—
Should my services on this (as they have on every other) occasion
meet your approbation, I shall feel myself recompensed in a manner
that will throw mid day beams upon the shade attempted to be cast
* Not present. A copy of the inventory was also enclosed by Bell to the
Secretary of War, Aug. 14, 1821 (post, p. 169), but without the plans and charts.
* These were transmitted by Jackson to the Secretary of State, Oct. 4, 1821,
and are now found in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, viii); for list, see Parker,
Calendar, pp. 75–76.
* Ante, p. 112.
* Ante, p. 116.
* Ante, p. 105.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 167
Over my name, in the Register of the Army; under the late Organiza-
tion *—
I have the honer to be with great respect & esteem Yr Mo Ob. St.
ROBERT BUTLER U: S: Commissioner
|Endorsed] Col" R. Butlers Report of the 8” of August 1821 how
he has executed my orders as Commissioner for receiveing West
Florida—which is fully approved—answer to that effect to be made &
handed him A. J. on the 8” answered & approved A. J.”—rec" with
General Jackson's No 2—at Pensacola—no, date—
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:C 38]
[August 9, 1821]
Copy of a letter to W* G D Worthington or Cap" John R Bell,
exercising the powers of the Governor of East Florida, dated PENSA-
COLA August 9” 1821
SIR, On the 28* ult” I dispatched as express,” Cap" Hanham,
to you with sundry ordinances that I found it necessary to adopt for
the better organisation of the Government of the Floridas. The ord-
inances are only a declaration of what the Spanish law really is,” and
* A few other letters from Butler to Jackson relative to the E. Fla. mission are
in LC (Jackson Papers, Vols. 59,60) and include the following: May 17, 1821, from
Darien, Ga., re the journey to East Florida; June 7, from St. Augustine, reporting
the arrival of the Spanish commissioner from Havana on the U. S. S. Nonsuch;
July 24, Fort Hawkins, re the journey from St. Augustine to Pensacola; Sept. 19,
Woodlawn, re the journey to Tennessee. In the same place is a letter from
Jackson to Butler (July 27) relative to the dispatch of Gadsden on July 1 with
instructions for Butler and a commission for Worthington. Letters from Jackson
to Butler, June 2 and June 13, explain the delays connected with taking over
Florida (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v). A letter from Butler to the Secretary
of War (May 29), detailing the reasons for the delay in taking possession of E.
Fla., reports negroes fortifying themselves at Tampa Bay, and the uneasiness of the
Indians (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 303); id. to id. (June 7) reports the arrival
of the Spanish commissioner (loc. cit., B294). Butler wrote Col. Brooke (Aug.
14) that after settling affairs as Adjutant General of the Southern Division in
Tennessee he would be ready to assume command of the Fourth Infantry (NA,
WD, AGO Lets. Recd.).
* LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of State, Aug. 1821, received Sept. 10,
NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii), printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 908. A duplicate of
this letter but dated Aug. 13, 1821, was sent by Jackson to the Secretary on
Jan. 22, 1822, post, p. 334.
* Ante, p. 133.
* See list of ordinances for E. Fla., ante, p. 156, n.



168 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
what its operations under the Cortez would have been—the constitu-
tion of Spain providing for the trial by Jury in criminal cases, altho'
never extended to the Colonies, because the Treaty ceding the Floridas
was concluded before the constitution was adopted and carried into
execution in Spain.
When I took possession here, I found nothing but an Alcalde, which
was filled by a Spanish Military Officer, who could not therefore hold
it under our Government. I appointed an Alcalde, Judge Braken-
ridge, in whose custody all archives received were placed—finding
that a Cabildo had once existed here, I ordained the reestablishmant
of it, in that of a Mayor and Alderman of the city, adding a Board
of Health to it, and there being no Judge, I created a County Court,
with the powers that this Court would have held under the Constitu-
tion of Spain and that of the United States.”
Col Butler reached me upon the 8* instant and reports, that he
found at St Augustine an Alcalde, a Cabildo and a Judge, all in oper-
ation. This will afford you great relief in carrying into effect the
Ordinances sent you by Cap" Hanham. In every instance where the
incumbents in office will take the necessary oaths of Office and are in
your opinion of good moral character and fit for the office, you will
continue them. I have found but few of the Spanish inhabitants here
that would accept of Offices under our Government, not having de-
termined of themselves whether they would become citizens of the
U States, and believing that taking an oath of office would be consid-
ered their election to become citizens, have in most cases refused.
It is necessary on the change of the Governments, that all officers
who are to execute it under the U States, should take the necessary
oaths of Office, and where this is refused, you will fill the vacancies
thus occasioned by new appointments, even where the old incumbents
will remain, and especially in the latter case, for as Spanish Officers
they cannot execute the Government under the U. States *
This will be handed you by Mº Bird, who has the appointment by
the President of the U. States as Attorney for East Florida.”
I am Sir with great Respect, Yº Mo Obt Servant.
Signed, ANDREW JACKSON
Governor of the Floridas &" &" &"—
True Copy, A J DONELSON L'Eng" Corps—
[Endorsed] Copy, of a letter to W* G. D. Worthington, from Gen.”
A. Jackson Rec" with General Jackson's No 2—Pensacola—no
date—
* See ante, p. 132.
* Answered post, p. 238.
* May, 22, ante, p. 49.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 169
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE Aug 14th 1821
SIR I have the honour to inform you that Capt. Hannam * ar-
rived here last evening from Pensacola bearer of dispatches from
Gen' Jackson Governor of the Floridas, they are address,d to Secy
Worthington or Officer exercising his duties—
Mr Worthington not having arrived I opened the package which
contains a Commission for Col" Forbes as Marshall of the Floridas,
letters of instructions, ordinances for the City, board of health,
judiciary &° &" and commissions for the Several Officers, which I
have suspended acting on for the present as the inhabitants appear to
be as content as circumstances will admit under the powers that be.-
We have an account of M* Worthington having sail, d for this place
from Charleston S. C. on the 5* inst—he will probably arrive in a
few days and it will be better for him to organise the Government on
the new system directed by Governor Jackson.—
The Post Master Mº Beers * has arrived as also Mº Rodman * the
Collector who are in the discharge of their official duties “
Most Respectfully I am Sir Your Most ob. St.
JNo R. BELL Cap' Comd” & Provis' Secy of E. F.—
HoNº" JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington City
[Endorsed] Recd 1 Sep" John R. Bell—
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 55:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE August 14* 1821
SIR I have the honour to enclose herewith a copy of a translation
made gratis by a gentleman of this City of an Invoice of all the
Fortresses and publick Edifices known as belonging to the Govern-
ment,” which was del,d to the American Commissioner Col" Butler
and which has been receipted for by the Post Quarter Master Lieu-
tenant Washburn, and I suppose reported by him to the Quarter
Master General; It is a document of but little use to us, as all the
* James R. Hanham.
** Jonathan S. Beers.
* James G. Forbes wrote the Secretary of State, Aug. 14, that Rodman and
Beers had entered into office on Aug. 13 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII).
* See Bell to Jackson, Aug. 14, 1821, NA (SD, loc cit.), printed, A. S. P.,
Misc., II, 912, containing a report on affairs at St. Augustine.
* Present, but without the plans and charts mentioned ante, p. 165. The
inventory is lengthy, is very interesting, and so far as known at present has never
been printed. It is not, however, reproduced here because it contributes nothing
to the evolution of the administration of the territory.



170 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
plans to which it refers were taken off by Col" Butler under a promise
that copies of them should be made and forwarded to us, We are en-
deavouring to hold possession of the publick property, and to do so
requires a vigilant eye, for the disposition of the Citizens, and mis-
taken ideas of Civil Officers keep us constantly on the alert—
Mr Rodman the Collector arrived here on the 11* inst. and was
[MS. torn] impression that he was to occupy the dwelling adjoining
the Custom-house (formerly occupied by the Treasurer under the
Spanish Government) which I am occupying at present as it is the
only building which is in a fit state for Officers Quarters, and I intend
to hold possession of it for that purpose until order,d otherwise from
Washington—The Officers and men will have to be remov,d from
the Fort, the rooms there are without Fire-places and so damp that
the men are beginning to be attack, d with rheumatism, at any rate I
do not know any civil Officer entitled to Quarters from the Govern-
ment, if they are they must produce an order from Gov" for them; and
as the property is reported to the Quarter Master General I shall
hold it subject to his instructions or your order
I also enclose a copy of a translation by the same Gentleman of the
Artilery, Arms, Amunicion, and War-like Stores * rec,d by the Post
Quarter Master from the Spanish Government agreeably to an ar-
rangement made by the Spanish & American Commissioners My
opinion is that no part of the articles enumerated in the account are
servicable—The powder is only fit for firing Signal Guns—The post
at Matanzas will be dismantled as soon as we can obtain a boat to
bring off the ordnance—
I take the liberty to enclose for your informa (MS. torn] of a letter
from Mr Dexter * and Talks held with the Seminole Indians "-If
something is not soon done to satisfy in some measure the apprehen-
sions of those Indians, and to prevent the incursions of ill disposed
whites and indian bands into their country we may expect difficulty
with them—At this time almost any reasonable arrangement could
be made on the part of the Government, but if delay,d wars of ex-
tirmination will take place, and their country cannot during the time
be travers,d by the Whites—some Gentlemen were turned back by
them and arrived in town yesterday.—
I do not urge this because I wish the appointment of Agent, but
to impress upon you, that the Sub Agent is useless, and so would any
50 Not present.
51 Horatio S. Dexter, an Indian trader at Volusia on the St. John's River (F. W.
Buchholz, History of Alachua County, Florida (St. Augustine, 1929) p. 46). See his
letter of Aug. 12, 1821 (A. S. P., Misc., II, 912–913).
** A. S. P., op. cit., p. 913.



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 171
foreigner be who is totally unacquainted with the Indian Character
and the liberal policy of our Government towards them.*—
Most Respectfully I am Sir Your Most Ob. St
JN° R. BELL Cap" Comd & Provis' Secretary of E. F.—
HoNº" J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War Washington City
|Endorsed] Remarks in relation to the removal of the troops from
the Fort on D" M* Closkey's letter herewith—T. Cross Oct 1. 1821
John R. Bell Cap" & "S" Augustine 14 Aug 1821 Encloses translation
Ofa Invoice of public buildings &"rec" by the American Commissioner.
M Rodman had arrived. Soldiers quarters damp &^ Copy letter
from Mr Dexter & talks with Seminole Indians &". &"
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:ALS)
S*AUGUSTINE 18th August 1821.
SIR I had the honor of addressing you by mail on the 14th instant,”
since which I am happy to anounce that Mr Worthington has at
length arrived; he takes charge of the Civil department on Monday
and will no doubt proceed to organize the Courts in Conformity to
the instructions received from H. E. the Governor. I will venture to
assert on this occasion that there never was a period when Law with
it's intricacies could be less Salutary in this Country, than at the
present, when inundation, Consequent sickness, and general distress
seems to pervade most classes of the miserable population now residing
in it—
Mº Penieres has just walked in from Picolata, and states that the
Indians are quite dissatisfied with their present Condition, of which,
he makes a report to the proper authority “–
I am with the greatest respect Sir Your most Obedient and very
faithful Servant
JAMES G. FORBES
TO THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS. Secretary of State
|Endorsed] Forbes J. Grant St Augustine, 18 Aug: 1821 Recd 29th.
arrival of M* Worthington &c. James G. Forbes—
* See post, p. 219.
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii), stating that Rodman, the collector of the
port, Hanham, the sheriff, and Beers, the postmaster, had all opened their
offices, and that Worthington's arrival was anxiously awaited.
* Acknowledged by Daniel Brent, post, p. 213.



172 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xix)
Department of State WASHINGTON Aug 20. 1821
ANDREW JACKSON Esquire. Governor of the Floridas
SIR I have had the honour of receiving your Letters of the 16.”
17 * & 18 Ult.* with their enclosures. They were immediately
transmitted to the President who is at the Shannondale Springs.
As it will doubtless be one of the earliest objects of attention to
Congress at their ensuing Session to prepare a more permanent system
of Government for the Territories of Florida, I would solicit communi-
cations from you as early and as ample as you can make them, of
information which may serve to enlighten the enquiries upon which
it may be expected that this Legislation will be founded.
A reference to the Laws of Congress, which were from time to time
enacted for the Government of the Louisiana Territories, may serve
to point out some of the particulars upon which information will be
most desirable—In this view the following acts are presented to your
attention—
1. An Act erecting Louisiana into two Territories, and providing for
the temporary Government thereof. 26 March 1804 Laws U. S.
Vol. 3. p. 603 *
2. An Act further providing for the Government of the Territory of
Orleans (P. 648) 2 Mar. 1805 °
3. An Act further providing for the Government of the District of
Louisiana (p. 658) 3 Mar. 1805 *
4. An Act for ascertaining and adjusting the titles & claims to Land
within the Territory of Orleans and the District of Louisiana
(page 652) 2 Mar. 1805 °
5. An Act extending the powers of the Surveyor General to the
Territory of Louisiana and for other purposes. (Vol. 4. p. 6)
28 Febr 1806.68
6. An Act supplementary to an Act, entitled an act for ascertaining
and adjusting the titles and claims to land within the Territory
of Orleans, and the District of Louisiana. (p. 50) 21 April 1806 °
** Ante, p. 119.
57 NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 764, an-
nouncing the surrender, on that date, of Pensacola.
58 Loc. cit., printed ibid., enclosing the procés verbal.
* Printed from the original, Terr. Papers (Orleans), x, 202–213.
*0 Do., ibid., pp. 405–407.
*I Do., ibid. (La.-Mo.), XIII, 92–95.
* Do., ibid. (Orleans), X, 408-414.
* 2 STAT. 352. The original bill is printed in Terr. Papers (La-Mo.), xIII,
448–449.
64 2 STAT. 391—395.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 173
7. An Act respecting claims to land in the Territories of Orleans and
Louisiana (p. 111.) 3 Mar. 1807."
8. An Act providing for the final adjustment of Claims to Land, and
for the sale of the public Lands in the Territories of Orleans
and Louisiana (Vol. 4. p. 322) 15 Feby 1811.”
9. An Act to enable the people of the Territory of Orleans to form a
Constitution and State Government, and for the admission of
such State into the Union, on an equal footing with the original
States and for other purposes. (p.328) 20 Feby 1811.”
10. An Act providing for the final adjustment of Claims to Lands and
for the Sale of the public Lands, in the Territories of Orleans
and Louisiana, and to repeal the act passed for the same purpose
and approved. Feby. 16. 1811, p. 356. 3 March 1811.”
11. An Act for ascertaining the titles and claims to Lands in that part
of Louisiana which lies east of the River Mississippi and Island
of New Orleans. 25 April 1812 °
There may be some others, but my reference to these is merely to
suggest the nature of part of the information which it is probable
may be desired by Congress in relation to the Floridas, and which
it hoped your position will enable you to furnish.*
I am &c
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
JUDGE FROMENTIN TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:ALS 70]
PENSACOLA Aug. 20" 1821
THE HON* J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
SIR The time which was to intervene betwixt the moment when I
received your letter of the 27* June last 7, & the moment when I was
informed my answer should be deposited in the post office, was so
short that I could not then touch upon the topic which is to be the
subject of my present communication.
When I first was informed of my appointment as Judge of the
United States for West Florida &c. I understood it to be an appoint-
ment to the office of territorial judge with the additional jurisdiction
vested in the judges of such territories where no district court of the
* Printed from the original, Terr. Papers (La.-Mo.), xiv., 102–106.
** 2 STAT. 617–621.
*72 STAT. 641–643.
* 2 STAT. 662–666. There was no land act of Feb. 16, 1811.
tº 2 STAT. T13–716.
** Answered post, p. 231.
70 Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 833–834.
7, NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XIX). Both letter and commission are printed, A. S. P.,
op. cit., p. 833.



174 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
United States has been established by the act entitled An act to extend
jurisdiction in certain cases to the territorial courts passed march 3"
1805.72
Upon receiving my commission & your letter of the 27th june last I
was rather confirmed in that opinion by the concluding paragraph in
your letter in the following words:
“and towards the organisation of the temporary government under
his (Gen. Jackson's) direction, it may be important that the judiciary
department should be put into operation immediately. I may be
mistaken; but it seems to me that if the court to which I am appointed
is to be confined, as Gen. Jackson contends, to the revenue laws of the
United States, and to the act respecting people of color, it could
hardly be denominated the judiciary department with reference to the
organisation of the temporary government under the direction of Gen.
Jackson.
However I deemed it my duty to communicate my commission &
your letter to Gen. Jackson, who communicated to me in return such
parts of his several commissions as he conceives admit of a construc-
tion entirely at variance with that which I put upon both my commis-
sion & your letter. It was then already too late for me to urge any
objections, the territorial court consisting of five judges created by Gen.
Jackson the presiding judge of which by the by is not of age according
to the Spanish law which he administers, being only twenty two years,
& the law requiring for that office that he should be at least twenty five
years, having been already in session one week before my commission
reached me.
I told the General that I would write to you on the subject. He told
me that he either had written to you already, or would write to you
likewise.” In the meantime things must of course go on as I found
them established on my arrival here, until I learn from you the precise
intentions of the President respecting the extent of the powers vested
in me. This representation, I beg you to believe, is not prompted on
my part by the remotest desire of assuming a jurisdiction not intended
to be given, but by a solemn obligation which I deem to be imposed
upon me, to inform you of the difficulties in which I am placed, and to
desire you to transmit to me as early as possible the necessary informa-
tion.
I have heard nothing of or from the marshal or any deputy appointed
or to be appointed by him Since the date of my last. I feel very
uneasy on the subject, as the public service must necessarily
suffer from the absence of that indispensible officer, there being no
authority here by which the deficiency may be supplied.
72 2 STAT. 338–339.
* Cf. ante, p. 156.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 175
The 27° section of the act of september 24* 1789 “prescribes the
amount & the mode of the Security to be given by the marshal & his
deputies; & the form of the oath to be taken by them. And unless
Judge Duval should now be in Sº Augustine to have those necessary
forms complied with, I know not when I am to expect here a deputy
marshal duly qualified. I say a deputy, because I understand that the
marshal himself contemplates making Sº Augustine the place of his
habitual residence.
I took the oath of office before Gen. Jackson.
The attorney of the United States has not yet arrived.”
Together with the present you will receive a packet delivered by me
for you two years ago to Captain Ramage of the navy, by whom it was
given to general Ripley with a request that he would forward it by
mail.” The Gen. neglected it, & delivered it back to me a few days
before I left New Orleans. I do not now recollect the contents, but
still deem it proper, late as it is, now to forward it.
I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your most Ob. h. Servt
ELIG. FROMENTIN
[Endorsed] Recd 12 Sep" "
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII: LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE Aug' 21" 1821
SIR I have the pleasure to inform you that W. G. D. Worthington
Esq appointed Secretary of the Province of East Florida by the
President of the United States "Arrived in this City on the 17* inst,
and on the 20° assumed the duties of his Appointment.—
Agreeably to instructions from Col" Butler the American Commis-
sioner for receiving this province from the Spanish authorities, I
have uniformly transmitted to you, copies of all such documents as
were of importance in the cource of my official transactions as Provi-
sional Secretary"—
I have now the honour to forward you a copy of the Commission
executed by me to D" Anselmo Gay for investigating the Archives
relating to the City Corporation or Council—Copy of a letter to M*
Worthington and copies of two receipts for sundry instruments and
documents deliver,d to him relative to the office of Secretary of the
province.”—
74 1 STAT. 87.
* Alexander Anderson, who declined the appointment.
7° Not present.
77 Answered post, p. 262. See also post, p. 260.
* Ante, p. 44.
** All present, but not here reproduced.
* Cf. ante, p. 114.



176 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Permit me Sir to call your attention to the latter part of my letter
address,d to you on the 17* Ult.* relative to an renumeration for
unavoidable expences incur, d in the performance of the prov' duties,
am I to look to your dep" for it? to Gen' Jackson? or am I to suffer
the loss?—
Your advice on the subject will confer a particular favour * on Sir
your most obedient St
JNO R. BELL Cap' Comdg
HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington City
[Endorsed] Bell J. R. 21. Augt. 1821. Delivery over to M' Worth-
ington Secretary Papers &c.—His Compensation, John R. Bell—
[Enclosure]
Commission of Anselmo Gay
Office of Provisional Secretary of the Province of East Florida
Sº AUGUSTINE August 14* 1821
To all to whom these presents come—Know Ye That whereas It
becomes necessary for the authorities of the Government of the United
States to ascertain the public property in this town and to have the
evidences of the property public and private yet in the hands of Span-
ish Officers respectively—and to be able to distinguish which is public
and which is Corporate property and reposing confidence in your
capacity & integrity I John, R. Bell, provisional Secretary of this
province do hereby appoint and authorise you Anselmo Gay Esquire
a commissioner on the part of the United States to join and aid such
person or commissioner as may be appointed on the part of the Spanish
Government or authorities resident here to select and take into
possession such Records, documents and evidences of property in this
town whether of a public Corporate or private nature as may be
useful to the United States Gov" the Corporation or private individ-
uals; and to leave only such as may be necessary for the protection of
the Spanish officers in the functions of their respective offices—and to
ascertain whether this town has ever been specially incorporated and
to procure the evidences of it, and what property in town belonged to
the Crown of Spain and which to the Corporation—and what claims
individuals have on public property, for what periods, and under what
limitations and the situation of the wharf and water lots. And you
will deliver to this department such documents as you may select,
* Ante, p. 124.
* No acknowledgment found. See ante, p. 133, n.
3.
º



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 177
and report such information as you may obtain on the foregoing
subjects.-
Given at the City of Sº Augustine East Florida this
fourteenth day of August in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred & twenty one.—
(Signed) JN" R. BELL
Capt Commg & Provis' Sect” of East Florida
(Signed) WILL. REYNOLDS Private Secretary
[Enclosure:LS)
John R. Bell to Acting Governor Worthington
Sº AUGUSTINE August 20° 1821
SIR. Enclosed you will receive documents N* 1, 2, & 3 which
constitute the Archives received from Governor Coppinger by the
American Commissioner Col Butler relating to the sovreignty of the
Province of East Florida as under his command.
N° 1 purports to be the 5* 7" & 10* Articles extracted from the
treaty concluded between Great Brittain & Spain on the 3" of Sep-
tember 1783 * in which the Floridas were ceded to the latter and is
authenticated by the signature of the Captain General of Cuba.-
Nº 2 contains official explanations of Governor Coppinger connected
with the fortification, vacant lots, public edifices, &" in the province.”
N° 3 is a copy of the original inventory “made out by the engineer
as referred to in N° 2—the original with the plans were retained by
Col Butler to be delivered over by him to Governor Jackson to enable
him to report fully on the subject touching his Government as required
by the Secretary of State.
The Archives and records which relate to property were not delivered
to Col Butler by the Spanish authorities a temporary disposition how-
ever was made of them and is explained by the Copies of the docu-
ments, agreements &" left by Col Butler for your information on this
subject marked N° 4.”
N° 5 contains a commission from Governor Jackson to W. G. D.
Worthington Esquire dated Pensacola 1* July 1821 * to exercise in
part the powers heretofore exercised by the Governor of East Florida—
Copy of Governor Jackson's 3" commission executed by the President
of the United States.—Governor Jacksons letter to M' Worthington
dated 25” of June * accompanied by a copy of a letter from the
* Charles O. Paullin (ed.), European Treaties Bearing on the History of the
United States and Its Dependencies (Washington, 1937), IV, 152–154.
* Ante, p. 66.
* See ante, p. 169, n. See also post, p. 306.
* Ante, p. 114.
* Ante, p. 104.
* Ante, p. 91.
301867–57 13



178 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Secretary of State dated 22* of May.”—An extract of a letter from
the Secretary of State dated 23” of May.”—A List of officers appointed
by the President of the United States for East & West Florida—A
private letter to M' Worthington.—
Nº 6 contains documents received from Governor Jackson on the
13* Inst. by Captain Hannam expressed from Pensacola.-Com-
mission for Col Forbes as marshall” of East and West Florida.-Copy
of a letter from John Quincy Adams to Governor Jackson—Letter
from Governor Jackson to Secretary Worthington dated 26* of
July * and one dated 27* of July.”—Ordnance Nº. 1 encorporating
the Town of Sº Augustine—N° 2 & 3 establishing Quarantine regula-
tions and providing for the naturalization of the inhabitants of the
Ceded Territory—N° 4 establishing Counties and County Courts
within the ceded Territory—N° 5 explanatory of the mode of pro-
ceeding in the County Courts—Commissions and Blank for the
City Council to be filled and Signed by the Secretary of East Florida—
Commissions for the officers of the County Court of Sº Johns—Com-
missions for the branch pilots for the port of Sº Augustine with a
form of the requisite bond and Security—Nine blank Commissions for
different officers—Commissions for Justices of the peace—Blanks to
be filled up with commissions as occasion may require.—
very respectfully your obedº Serv"
J" R. BELL Capº Comdº & Provis' Secy of E. F.—
W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Esquire Secretary of East Florida.
S* AUGUSTINE, East Florida August 20° 1821
I have this day received from Capt. John R. Bell commanding
United States Troops & provisional Secretary of East Florida the
documents set forth in the foregoing numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 and for
the purposes therein expressed.—
Given under my hand day & date aforesaid
Signed Triplicates W* G. D. WoRTHINGTON
[Endorsed] Rec" in Capt." Bell's letter of 21* Aug 1821.
[Enclosure]
John R. Bell to Acting Governor Worthington
S* AUGUSTINE August 20° 1821.
SIR Governor Jackson anticipating your probable non arrival in
East Florida at the time of the exchange of flags at this place did by
** Ante, p. 50.
90 Printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 754.
* Ante, p. 45.
* Ante, p. 133.
* LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. & Orders, Bk. M).



F L OR I.D.A. T E R R. I TOR Y 179
a commission bearing date the 11* of July 1821 provisionally vest
in me all the powers and authorities under certain limitations hitherto
exercised by the Spanish Government of said province; which I was
more particularly directed to exercise by a letter from Col Robert
Butler the American Commissioner of the same date, and by which I
am instructed on your arrival at S* Augustine, to turn over the
written instruments included in N* 1. 2. & 3 of the accompanying
(documents) invoices taking your triplicate receipts for the same,
when my powers, authorities &" exercised under the provisional Com-
mission from Governor Jackson ceases.—
In the performance of my provisional duties as Secretary of East
Florida I have had occasion to make the following appointments,
which are also provisional and their duties cease on your assuming
the office of Secretary of the province, unless continued by your
authority—viz. Don F. J. Fatio to be public Translator and inter-
preter—William Reynolds Esquire, to be private Secretary—Thos
Fitch Esquire to be Attorney Gen'in the absence of J. G. Bird Esquire,
duly appointed by the President of the United States—Copies of their
appointments have been transmitted to the Secretary of State and
Gen' Jackson—Enclosed is a list of all the officers exercising authority
in this province who held their situations under the Spanish Authorities
and have been Continued under the proclamation of Gov. Jackson
excepting the board of pilotage the pilots, the City Surveyor &
Engineer and the health physician.-
Enclosed is a letter from Governor Coppinger” on the subject of
negroes confined in the fort, of which notice has been given in the
newspapers requiring the owner or owners to come forward and prove
the property, or the slaves will be sold to pay expences on the first
monday in october next—There is also confined in the fort, one negro,
a negro woman and her two children claimed by John M. Carter, as
one of the heirs of the late H. Carter, their cases have been partially
investigated before the Alcalde; but said Carter having attempted to
carry off the woman and Children by force, subjected himself to an
arrest, and is held to appear before the Criminal Court of this province
to answer for the offence in a recognizance of one thousand dollars
which is herewith enclosed.—
The English Schooner Oleander was seized, in this port for a viola-
tion of the navigation laws of the United States on board of which
were four negro slaves, they are also confined in the fort until further
instructions from the Collector of the port.—
A man by name of Mason sent in by the justice of the peace of
St John's river charged with having stolen a horse is confined in the
* Not found.



180 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
fort for trial, the letter of the Justice and that of the Alcalde of this
City are herewith enclosed.—
Records and documents made and collected during the time I have
provisionally exercised the duties of Secretary of the province will be
the subject of a future communication.”—
Most respectfully I am Sir your obedº Serv"
(Signed) JN" R BELL
Capt Comm" & Provis' Secºy of East Florida
W. G. D WORTHINGTON Secy of East Florida
[Endorsed] Rec" in Capt" Bell's letter of 21 Aug 1821.
-
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE Aug' 21; 1821.
SIR—I left Baltimore, on the 15. Ulto. & had 16 days passage to
Charleston, where I was delayed 8 days for a vessel; then having a
passage of 12 days to this place, I did not reach here, till the 17 Inst.
I was just in time to meet a despatch from Gen' Jackson, which
under the form of five Ordinances establishes a new order of things
in this Territory—I am carrying his instructions, forthwith, into
execution, and shall have the honor by the next mail of forwarding
a copy of this new System to the Department”—
Gen' Jackson has reposed great confidence, in the selection which
the President has made, of the Secretary for East Florida, by enclosing
me a commission, authorising me to exercise all the Powers & author-
ities heretofore exercised by the Spanish Governor of East Florida—
I feel this high responsibility, and altho' there are necessary exceptions
& the new system will create more, in abridging the Executive duties
here, yet in all important proceedings I shall resort to the experience
& wisdom of Governor Jackson and to the direction of the proper
Department at Washington—
I shall endeavour to conciliate all parties here, bearing in mind
however, that the American Polity & Jurisprudence must supervene
the Spanish, and the sooner the better, both for this Territory & the
Union, if affected by temperance & discretion”—
With very distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
THE HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—Recd 8th Sep'
* On Aug. 27, 1821, Bell informed Worthington that the documents left by
Butler had been forwarded six days before (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 60).
* See ante, p. 133.
ºf Reply, if any, not found.



FL OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 181
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 55:ALS)
Sº AUGUSTINE Aug' 21. 1821.
SIR-I take leave to obtrude on your time for a few moments—
Captain John R. Bell of the Army, who since this Territory was
delivered to Col. Butler & till my arrival here, has exercised the
functions, antecedently discharged by Governor Coppinger; thinks
our Indian relations here, critical & important—He has had the best
opportunity to understand this subject and of his ability & integrity
in judging correctly I have no doubt—He is of opinion that an Agent
should be sent amongst them.—Only, having, myself arrived here, on
the 17. Inst—and being much occupied with various other affairs, I
have as yet, but an imperfect knowledge of this matter—However,
delay may be detrimental, and no possible ill can result from sending
such Agent—
I presume your Department have already full information on this
head, and if you should feel it necessary to appoint an Agent, I will
ask leave to name Captain Bell, as a person in my humble judgment
every way eminently, qualified for that situation—Altho' I know his
services are highly valuable to his Country in the place he now fills,
yet he has a great desire to change his present station for the one
above mentioned—and so far as any testimonial which I can furnish
can be of service to him he freely has it—
I must again solicit your pardon for the present intrusion”—
With very distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
THE HONB” J. C. CALHOUN
[Addressed] The Honb" J. C. Calhoun Secretary at War Washington
[Postmarked] Sº Augustine August 21—Free
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF WAR 99
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 55:ALS)
Sº AUGUSTINE, August 21* 1821
SIR-On my arrival here having no house for myself & family,
I requested to have the occupancy of what is called the Government
house for civil offices &c.
It is an ordinary building & only sufficient for a small family—
The officers of the Army being here first, think it should be appropriated
* No acknowledgment found.
* Copy enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821, NA
(SD. Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII).



182 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
to them—It seems to be the general impression that the civil officers
of the Government should also have some small accomodation—and
I with great pleasure will abide by your decision in this affair, which
seems necessary to avoid any unpleasant clashing on this subject."
With distinguished Consideration, &c.
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON.
THE HONBLE J. C. CALHOUN
[Addressed] The Honble John C. Calhoun Secretary at War Wash-
ingtonſ Postmarked] Sº Augustine August 21 Free
[Endorsed] The old Government House referred to by M. Worthing-
ton if abondoned by the Military, should in my view be devoted
exclusively to offices for the civil departments—This I think would
be very appropriate—It is not customary I believe, for the Govern-
ment to provide House accommodation for Civil Officers—it seems to
be expected however, by M* W’s reference to his family's accommo-
dation—The House is by no means small, nor is it ordinary, though
at present in bad repair—
From the unmixed character of the former government at S*
Augustine, there was no distinction recognized in regard to the dis-
tribution of the public Houses—It seems to me however, that a dis-
tribution should now be made, and as all the property is in the pos-
session of the Military, the Secº of War appears perfectly Competent
to make the distribution—In doing this, office accommodation for the
civil authorities should, I think, alone be afforded. The old Govern-
ment House Contains 6 Spacious Rooms on two floors, and would in
my opinion fully suffice for that purpose, as well as for holding the
County Court which will meet there—The residue of the public
Houses with the exception of the Collectors office and that part of
the Custom House allotted to the reception of stores or merchandize,
should remain in the possession of the Military—It may be proper
to remark that there are several good rooms suitable for officers
quarters in the building in which the Collectors office is kept, It
appears by Cap" Bell's letter * that the Collector Considers himself
entitled to them also-if he be permitted to occupy them, quarters
must be rented for the Military officers—I believe however, that
grade of officers (Collectors) are never furnished with accommodations
of this kind as matter of right—T. Cross Oct 1. 1821
1 See post, p. 285.
* Ante, p. 169.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 183
MEMORIAL TO THE PRESIDENT BY MEMBERS OF THE
PENSACOLA BAR 8
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters.:DS]
|August 25, 1821]
To JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
The Undersigned, the Members of the Bar of Pensacola, unani-
mously, and in the most respectful manner, represent, that they have
seen, with extreme regret and mortification, the appointment, to a
Judicial Office of high importance in this Province, by the Supreme
Executive of the Federal Government, of a man, whose legal acquire-
ments, and whose moral character, are equally unfitted to inspire
those sentiments of respect, and that feeling of confidence, which are
due to his elevated station, but which rank, however dignified,
cannot alone confer. The dispensation of justice depends, not only
on the wisdom and rectitude of the Bench, but on the integrity and
consideration of the Bar. In a Court, in which it is deemed degrading
to practice, honorable men will be reluctant to appear. Your Memori-
alists cannot stoop to rehearse the reports, which are in general circu-
lation, of the unworthiness of Judge Fromentin, it is sufficient to say,
that they are of a nature to arrest the attention of those, on whom
rests the responsibility of selecting the public functionaries, and who
have clothed him with authority—and of a currency, which if it be
not conclusive evidence of their truth, is an imperative reason for
their investigation. His incapacity, which might well have been
argued from the defect of his education, has been rendered glaringly
apparent from his first attempt to assume the exercise of power.
Under these circumstances, Your Memorialists feel themselves
called upon, most respectfully, but most urgently, to remonstrate
against the nomination of Eligius Fromentin to the Senate of the
United States, at their next session, as a candidate for the office of
District Judge of the United States, for this District, and to protest
against his appointment.
PENSACOLA, August 25. 1821.
J. H. CHAPLIN HORATIO BIGLOW
H. M. BRACKENRIDGE WA* L HANNUM
GEORGE BOWIE R K CALL
JOHN C. MITCHELL BENJ: I. RANDALL
SAM! FRY D SHANNON
ADAM GORDON
[Endorsed] with Horatio Bigelow's Letter of 27 Aug 1821.
* Enclosed in covering letter from Bigelow to the Secretary of State, Aug. 27,
1821.



184 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
JUDGE FROMENTIN TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:ALS 4)
PENSACOLA Aug. 26 1821
THE HON” J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
SIR. At the same time at which this will be delivered to you, you
will receive, no doubt from Gen. Jackson himself a full detail of the
outrage by him committed in the person of Col. Callava.” My un-
availing efforts to have the Col. released only brought upon me a
part of the same” contumelious treatment. I am not sufficiently
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 834–836.
* Referring to the arrest and imprisonment of Callava and to the ensuing
misunderstanding between Jackson and Judge Fromentin respecting the sources
of judicial authority in W. Fla. Nicholas Maria Vidal, a former Spanish official,
died in 1806 seized of property in Louisiana and Florida, and John Innerarity,
agent in Pensacola of the firm of John Forbes and Co., of Mobile, was executor
of the estate. Vidal's heirs, however, had been unable to obtain action up to
1821 partly because the relevant papers were in the possession of the Spanish
administration. Jackson demanded of Callava that he surrender the papers
vital to the settlement of the estate, but he refused to relinquish them as he should
have done previously in accordance with the terms of the treaty of 1819. He
was consequently arrested and imprisoned on orders of Jackson. When Judge
Fromentin interfered with a writ of habeas corpus, Jackson lectured him upon
proper subordination to a superior. The nub of the controversy was the extent
of the judge's authority, whose commission detailed but two duties (ante, p. 42 n.).
The dispute caused a stir not only in Pensacola but also in Washington where it
was capitalized on by opponents of the administration. A resolution introduced
by Rep. Ezekiel Whitman, of Maine, adopted by the House on Jan. 3, 1822,
after remarks by various members, requested the Secretary of State to furnish
copies of documents relative to the matter, as well as to the delay on the part of
the Spanish in delivering the archives (House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 42–43,
108–109; Annals of Cong., 17 Cong., 1 sess., I, 534, 558–559, 610–619, 620).
With his message of Jan. 28, 1822, the President submitted to Congress an
extensive collection of documents from the files of the State Dept., published in
H. Doc. 42, 17 Cong., 1 sess., and Annals of Cong., 17 Cong., 1 sess., II, 2295–
2569, and subsequently republished in A. S. P., Misc. II, 799–913, and partly
republished in A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 765 et seq. A supplementary group of
papers transmitted to Congress by the President on Apr. 18 was published in
H. Doc. 113, 17 Cong., 1 sess., and S. Doc. 86, 17 Cong., 1 sess., and later re-
published in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 765 et seq. The most important communica-
tions between Jackson and the Secretary of State on this subject appear in Bassett
(ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 112–116, 126–129, 133–139. The foregoing publications
include practically all of the documents to be found in the records of the State
Department. The only exceptions of any importance are the following: Fromentin
to the Secretary of State, Aug. 28, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII,
printed, Pensacola Floridian, Apr. 6, 1822), and id. to id., Nov. 12, 1821 (NA,
loc. cit., IX, 7). A letter from Fromentin to the editors of the Floridian, Nov. 12,
1821, is in Niles’ Reg., xxi, 252-253. Jackson evidently transmitted an almost
complete documentation of the episode to the State Department, for only a few
other documents of minor value have been found in his papers. A lucid account
of the dispute is in John S. Bassett, Life of Andrew Jackson, 1, 301–310. See also
James Parton, Life of Andrew Jackson, II, 616 et seq.



FLO R. I D A T E R R I TOR Y 185
acquainted with all the circumstances attending this transaction to
be able to give you a complete history of it. I will then confine
myself to giving you an account of the conduct which I pursued, &
which now that passion has somewhat subsided, I think upon mature
reflection is the only conduct which my duty permitted me to pursue.
Early in the morning of the 23° inst. I was informed that Col.
Callava had been arrested the preceding night in his house, & carried
to jail. Soon after my house was filled with people of all descriptions
and languages. By degrees the crowd retired, & it was not till about
eleven O clock that Mess Larua, Innerariti, Dr Brosnaham & father
Coleman returned to my house. The three first applied to me for a
writ of habeas corpus. I knew that it was in vain, having no marshal
to execute my orders, to send an individual who could have no author-
ity to demand it, for a copy of the warrant in virtue of which Col.
Callava was detained; & that as that copy could & perhaps ought to
have been refused by an officer of the army to that individual who
could have no legal character to demand it, I could not from an
affidavit of a refusal to deliver the copy of the warrant under those
circumstances, find myself more authorised after than before such a
refusal to issue the writ. And indeed could a legal demand have been
made with success in the absence of a marshal from an officer of the
army? Could any body have obtained from either Gen. Jackson or
the officer in whose immediate custody Col. Callava was a copy of the
warrant? Is it enough to have a right to trample under foot every
law to place the officers charged with their execution in the impossi-
bility of complying with the requisites of the law? Would not the
same uncontrolable temper which manifested itself at the issuing of
the writ, have manifested itself at the application for a copy of the
warrant, which would have prevented the issuing of the writ, because
nobody then could have been found to serve it? I felt anxious, Sir,
after the application was made to me that the only judicial officer of
the United States in West Florida, although with the consciousness of
not being able to accomplish it, should do everything in his power to
liberate Col. Callava from confinement. Is it fair to apply to me under
the most extraordinary circumstances of difficulty the severity of the
forms intended to be complied with in a state of undisturbed
tranquillity?
Besides there are no indispensibly necessary formalities absolutely
required previous to the granting of that writ. The form of it may
The sequel of the Vidal story is of some interest. When Innerarity failed to
render an accounting, the heirs brought suit. Executions were levied against
him in Jan. 1822 by the Superior Court of W. Fla., and upon his refusal to pay,
the sheriff levied on and took away his negroes and furniture. See John C. Connor
to Jackson, Feb. 3, 1822, and George Walton to id., Feb. 4, 1822 (LC, Jackson
Papers, Vol. 61).



186 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
vary a little according to the laws of the several states. Some may
require security for costs, if the writ should be improperly applied for.
Others may require security that the party in the act of bringing him
before the judge shall not escape. Others may require other things.
But there is not that I know of any particular prerequisite commanded
by the laws or adopted by the courts of the United States, who, I
believe, follow in that respect the particular forms prescribed by the
laws of the state in which an application is made for the writ. I was
then in that respect bound by no precedent; & I was forced to adopt
the only mode which I had it in my power to pursue.
The common law by allowing that particular writ to be served by
any body and upon any body seemed to have anticipated the peculiar
difficulties in which I was placed. The only question then for me to
examine after a formal though verbal application was made to me,
was whether I had a right to issue the writ. With that view I con-
sulted my commission. I find myself there styled a judge of the United
States authorised & empowered to execute & fulfill the duties of that
office according to the Constitution and laws of the United States.
I need not say that I consulted the Constitution. But I consulted the
acts of Congress, and in the 14* connected with the 13* section of
the act of Sept. 24. 1789 I find that all the above mentioned courts
of the United States have a right to issue the writ of Habeas corpus,
and all other writs not specially provided for by statute which may be
necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdiction, and agreable
to the principles and usages of law.
But again, says Gen. Jackson, the writ of Habeas corpus is not ex-
tended by law to this territory; & I must confine myself to the jurisdic-
tion given by the act of Congress in the only two cases mentioned in
the act, to wit: the revenue laws, & the importation of people of color.
And could not I in return ask Gen. Jackson by what act of Congress
Grand juries, & in criminal matters petty juries have been established
in this territory. The general has established them. He has done
right—I thank him for it. But is it more necessary for the protection
of the liberties of the people that they should be tried in criminal mat-
ters by a jury than it is that they should have a remedy against the
wild ravings of ungovernable tyranny? Let the events of the 22” &
I might add of the 23" & 24* days of this month answer the question.
God grant that before long a still more eloquent answer be not
furnished to the question!
Yet, Sir, Determined as I was, as far as laid in my power, to en-
deavour to have justice done to Col. Callava, I was not less deter-
mined to have justice done to the country. I feel as deeply as any
American, any attempt on the part of the agents of a foreign govern-
ment, to disregard the rights of the United States. I once had an
oportunity of expressing my opinion to you in writing on that very



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 187
subject. & I may safely appeal to what I wrote then for a correct
expression of what I must feel in every similar case. & although I
do not believe a word of what is attempted to be laid to the charge of
Col. Callava, yet in consequence of the state of agitation in which
the whole country was thrown, I deemed it a duty, under the dis-
cretionary power vested in all the judges who have a right to grant
the writ of Habeas corpus to require security; & I informed the
friends of Coſ. Callava who applied to me for the writ, that I would,
before setting Colonel Callava at liberty, require security for the
production before me, of the papers said to be in his possession.
Security was offered to any amount. I mentioned forty thousand
dollars: Col. Callava himself in twenty thousand, & the two securities
in ten thousand dollars each. Mº Larua & M." Innerarity agreed to
become securities. I then issued the writ marked Nº. 1." & delivered
it to be served on the officer who had the guard of the prison where
Col. Callava was confined to Dº Brosnaham another of the friends of
Col. Callava who had joined in applying for the writ. In the mean-
time I prepared a rough draft of the recognisance a copy of which is
sent marked N° 2.” The rough draft of that recognizance was on my
table when Col. Walton came to bring me the order from Gen. Jackson
to be hereafter mentioned, & I gave it to him to read.
I was engaged in making some necessary alterations in the draft
of that recognisance when I received from the officer of the day the
letter marked Nº. 3." in answer to the writ I had issued. I dropped
the unnecessary labour of putting the recognizance in a better shape.
The soldier who brought me the letter of the officer of the day had
scarcely left my house, when Col. Walton entered it with the written
order above alluded to from Gen. Jackson to me marked N° 4.”
After some conversation with Col. Walton, in the course of which
I mentioned to him what I had done & intended to do in this business,
I gave him to read as before stated the rough draft of the recognizance.
I then desired him to furnish me with a certified copy of the written
order which he had given me to read, & he agreed to call on me at
five Oclock for my answer. He returned in about half an hour, &
gave me the written copy I had applied for. In the meantime, Having
reflected on the strange message of Gen. Jackson, I determined upon
writing to him the letter a copy of which accompanies this marked
N°5.” About five Oclock Col. Walton returned according to promise;
& I gave him to read the letter which I had prepared in answer to the
* Present, dated Aug. 23, 1821.
7 Present.
* Present, signed by Capt. Philip Wager, stating that Jackson had ignored the
writ and that Callava would be continued in confinement.
* Present, dated Aug. 23, 1821.
10 Present.



188 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
written communication of Gen. Jackson. After reading it several
times He advised me not to send it, & observed that as he himself
knew that I was then suffering from a severe rheumatism which
prevented me from walking, he would state the fact in his return,
& that I could thus further advise what I thought best to do. This
letter was not of course sent to Gen. Jackson. We had some further
conversation, & at parting I told the Col. that in the situation in
which I was, nothing but force would compel me to leave my house.
The Colonel made his return. I did not see him again that day;
& when night came, I anticipated a renewal of the scene of the day
before, & prepared myself for the consequences. However nobody
came to disturb me. The next day about noon the Col returned, &
observed that both the general & myself must be desirous of making a
report of this affair to the government by the next mail; that there
was no time to be lost, & that it was the general's wish that I should
call at his office the next day in the morning. After the Col. had
withdrawn I reflected that the state of things was now somewhat
different from what it was the day before. A reason was assigned
for my having an interview with the General, the force of which I
felt. and ultimately a longer resistance would only end in affording
Gen. Jackson the scandalous triumph of once more trampling upon
the laws of his country. I determined to go there that very afternoon;
& accordingly at about 4 O clock P. M. I went to the office of Gen.
Jackson The conversation, as you may suppose, was nearly all on
one side, not unmixed with threats of what he said he had a right to
do for my having dared to interfere with his authority. He asked
me whether I would dare to issue a writ to be served upon the Captain
General of the island of Cuba. I told him No. but that if the case
should require it, and I had the necessary jurisdiction, I would issue
one to be served on the President of the United States. Ultimately
he wished to know the name of the persons who had applied for the
writ of Habeas corpus. I unhesitatingly told them to him. Then
he wished to know whether they had made the usual affidavit stating
that they had been refused a copy of the warrant upon which Col.
Callava was confined. I told him No. that the application to me
was a verbal one. Gen Jackson then required me to sign what I had
just declared. I told him I was ready to do it; & I did it accordingly,
D" Bronough who was present at the conversation having reduced
that part of it to writing.
Much more was said by the General respecting the extent of his
powers, the happy selection made of him by the President; the hope
that no living man should ever in future be clothed with such extra-
ordinary authority. How fortunate it was for the poor that a man of
his feelings had been placed at the head of the government! &c. &c.
&c. &c. &c. The whole intermixed with or rather consisting alto-



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 189
gether of the most extravagant praises of himself, & the most savage &
unmerited abuse of Col. Callava & of myself for doing my duty in
attempting to set him at liberty.
The first time the authority of Gen. Jackson is contested I should
not be surprised, if to all the pompous titles by him enumerated in
his order to me marked Nº. 4.” he should superadd that of grand
inquisitor, & if finding in my library many books formerly prohibited
in Spain, and among others the Constitution of the United States he
should send me to the stake. -
I had taken the liberty in the course of my conversation with him
to contest some of the powers he assumes as governor & intendant, &c,
of which legal powers both previous to and since the adoption of the
Spanish constitution he appears to me not to have the remotest
knowledge. As to the Spanish constitution he will not hear of it,
although it was solemnly sworn to here about sixteen months ago.
Nothing will do for him but the laws which were in force in Spain on
the 19* february 1819. So that the first initiation of the inhabitants
of Florida in the enjoyment of liberty must be by a retrograde step
from a state of comparative liberty to a state of absolute Slavery.
I attempted to represent, but he would not let me go on. Ultimately
I was permitted to depart without having suffered but in my feelings
as an American.
The American flag, it is true, The flag of liberty waves on our forts.
A treacherous sign in Florida, Sir. The bohon-upas tree of slavery
overshadows our town.
Sirit is reluctantly that I speak thus of a man whom once I delighted
to honor. But I owe you the truth, & painful as the task may be, I
must discharge my duty.” I have the honor to be with great respect
Sir your most Ob. h. Servt.
ELIG. FROMENTIN
[Endorsed] Recd 19th September.
in Present; Jackson's words are as follows: “. . . Governor of the Floridas,
exercising the powers of the Captain General and intendant of the island of Cuba
over the said provinces, and of the Governors of said provinces respectively.
In my judicial capacity as Supreme judge over the same, and as chancillor
thereof . . .”
in Answered post, p. 262. See Fromentin to the Secretary of State, Aug. 23, 1821,
NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII), printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 837–838, defending
his position in issuing the writ of habeas corpus for the release of Callava, which
Jackson rejected. See also post, p. 242.



190 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE CITY COUNCIL OF ST. AUGUSTINE is
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII:C)
C. (Copy) [August 27, 1821]
Mr MAYOR & GENTLEMEN,
It will be necessary, since the organization of the civil Government
of East Florida, that suitable buildings, rooms and offices be procured
and designated for the accomodation of its various Departments.
It can scarcely be requisite to mention that those Buildings which
were heretofore appropriated to the military, or which may now be
necessary for the small peace establishment which is stationed here,
will not come within the scope of this communication—But as the
surrender of this Province to Col. Butler rendered it fit that for the
time being he should occupy for the safe keeping the public edifices—It
may be well to make a general statement of everything as it has since
the transfer and does at this moment exist.
I would suggest your procuring information on the following
heads—
1* The National property transferred to the United States,
discribing it specifically—the uses to which it was designed under the
Spanish Government—the uses to which it has been assigned since
and at this time—Its probable cost to the Spanish Government—
Its value now if sold on a credit of one, two, or three years—How much
it would bring if rented—which are tenantable as they now are—
How much would repair them—what would be the best course for
the United States to pursue with them.
2" The property belonging to the city of Sº Augustine, with the
same enquiries as above, and what would be the best course for the
City council to take on it.
It will occur to you that the Civil Officers of the United States
must have fixed places to transact the public business—The Secretary
and acting Governor of this Territory has addressed a short note to
the Secretary at War by last mail to know if the Government House
is to remain with the civil or the military authority”—He did this
because, he has been and is still under much inconvenience for a suit-
able place to receive the Citizens and inhabitants of this province for
the transactions of their official concerns. Altho' the Secretary of
the Province can very well put up with an inconvenience of this kind,
as he is not certain that he has an absolute right to demand a House
either for himself and family or as an officer—Yet it is hoped that
is This copy was enclosed to the Secretary of State by Worthington, Aug. 28,
1821 (infra); another copy was transmitted on Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p. 247).
14 Ante, p. 181.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 191
ere long the Governor of the Floridas, acting as Captain General
&* may pay this important and interesting portion of his Territories
a visit and may even prefer it as his permanent residence—He would
therefore submit whether it will comport in such a probable event with
the respect which is due to the chief Magistrate of these Provinces,
and whether it will not unavoidably embarras the transactions of the
public affairs, that no suitable place should be in readiness to receive
him.
The Judge of the District Court of the United States, the Marshal,
Attorney, Clerk, &", it would seem ought to have a place to hold their
Court and keep their offices.
The officers of the Revenue have I believe already a place to transact
the affairs of the Customs—The City council, The territorial Court
of the County of Sº Johns, The high Sheriff as well as other territorial
officers which will occur to you, ought in some manner to be accomo-
dated for the benefit and convenience of the people at large with the
transaction of whose business [they]* are charged.
It gives me pleasure to state that Captain Bell offered me everything
which he deemed within his controul to accomodate me temporarily,
but as that accomodation might terminate on the arrival of Col.
Eustis here, which was daily expected, I declined placing either him
or myself in a predicament which might turn out to be peculiarly
delicate—Should there be any appropriate places for public worship
under our system of free tolleration you will of course make par-
ticular mention of them.
A full and speedy report on this subject with a view of submitting
it to the highest authority is required.
Permit me to congratulate you and the citizens of this Territory
on the opening of your first sitting—I sincerely pray that your pro-
ceedings may not only redound to your own credit, but be for the bene-
fit of all the Inhabitants of this portion of our Country—Having
determined not to intermeddle with affairs, not strictly within the
range of my duty, I must decline following the custom of my Spanish
predecessors of Presiding in your Council—I regard your Body as of
a Legislative character, mine is Executive, I shall therefore abstain
as well from your duties, as I shall matters which may belong to the
Judiciary—I wish you distinctly to understand that I decline no
labour nor responsibility which properly may belong to me—and that
I tender you at all times any services and information in my power
1* Brackets are on the MS.



192 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
which you may request in aid of advancing the happiness and pros-
perity of this country.”
Your friend and fellow citizen,
(Signed) W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON.
Secretary &" for East Florida.
ST AUGUSTINE August 27* 1821.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii:LS)
Sº AUGUSTINE Aug' 28* 1821
SIR Agreeable to the promise in my letter of the 21* Instant” I
now enclose you a printed set of Gen' Jackson's five Ordinances"—
As my letter to Gen' Jackson of this date gives a brief and fair
account of the state of my proceedings here, I do myself the honor to
enclose a Duplicate thereof, and of the several exhibits accompanying
it, Marked A. C. & D. I have not at hand a complete list of the new
officers, as contemplated in B. which I will forward by my next.—
I have no doubt of carrying every thing easily and happily into
operation here. The Indian subject, in extenso, I shall take up as
soon as I have time, as also the subject of the English wreckers,”
lining the southermost coast of Florida, and any thing else that may
seem necessary. The subject of the Archives, which excites a deep
and lively interest here, I understand has been by C (MS. torn] Butler
lodged with our Government at Washington, and I feel bound not to
move in it, till I hear their pleasure.”
If I was to give my own private opinion, I should say, had I have
been the Commissioner I don't think I would have accepted the
cession of the Province without them.
16 Acknowledged, Aug. 28, 1821, by Mayor James G. Forbes (NA, SD, Fla.
Terr. Paper, viiI) who stated that a committee had been appointed to act on the
property evaluation requested. See post, p. 200.
17 Ante, p. 180.
18 Present. See ante, p. 134, n.
1° Among the documents transmitted by Bell to the Secretary of War, Aug. 28,
1821 (post, p. 197), was a letter from Peter Stephen Chazotte, written from Cape
Florida, Aug. 18, 1821, in which he reported the presence of English wreckers at
the tip of Florida and intercourse between the Indians there and Nassau. A pass-
port had been issued to Chazotte by the Secretary of State on May 1, 1821 (NA,
SD, Dom. Lets., XIX), to visit E. Fla. where he made an investigation for the
American Coffee Land Association, which was interested in securing land from
the United States Government upon which to establish an agricultural settlement
for the purpose of raising tropical products. See documents published in House
Report 47, 17 Cong., 1 sess.
20 See post, p. 247.



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 193
The Ex Governor Coppinger is still here, but I have had very little
communication with him; simply a private formal interchange of
civilities *
With very Distinguished Consideration.
W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Secretary &c for East Florida
THE HONORABLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—
[Enclosure:Dup.]
Acting Governor Worthington (East Florida) to Governor Jackson
(Copy.) “B” S*AUGUSTINE, 28* August, 1821.
SIR, Neither wishing it, nor deeming it politic, when Captain Bell
transferred his civil powers to me on the 20° inst, as I have already
written to you that the Mayor & Council who had acted since the
cession should become also instanter functus officio, I that day re-
quested them to continue still in the Gov" and meet me at 10. A.M.
in the Council chamber on the 22* the ensuing wednesday, when I
would lay before them your ordinances or such of them as could in
the interim be printed, I found that not more than one or two of them
could be printed in that time, so I ordered N° 3. respecting Natural-
ization, to be first struck off and brought to me at the council chamber
by the hour of meeting, it was so. The Mayor and Council assembled,
I took my Seat as President of the Board, made a short address grow-
ing out of the Ordinances, complimented the Mayor and the other
members on the late discharge of their functions, and as it was neces-
sary to reorganize their body according to your Ordinances, hoped
that they would still consent to officiate—The Mayor and everyone
of the Council, with the exception of Sº D* Francisco J. Fatio, de-
clined, because they said they could not at this time abjure their
allegiance to the King of Spain. They were all Spanish Subjects,
I did not say whether that was absolutely necessary as a preliminary
to an office in this territory, they took the ground themselves, and
having taken it, I did not think it essential for me to say it was not
a necessary prerequisite, so I accepted of all their resignations, except
Mº Fatio, who when I came to him rose up and boldly said, “Sir, I
will take the oath of allegiance to the United-States with pleasure.”
I then dissolved the meeting, and stuck up notices that the civil officers
under the new organization would meet at the same place on saturday
the 25* and in the most public manner take their respective oaths of
office. In the interim altho' the late Mayor and council had with-
drawn from being considered candidates, I determined to offer some
of the most honourable and important appointments to the native
* Answered post, p. 279.
301867–57 14



194 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
and old inhabitants of the province, and to endeavour to get a due
number of Spaniards, Minorcans, French, Irish, Americans, &" into
the new government if they would accept of places. I wrote a cir-
cular, of which the enclosed marked A. is a copy,” to some of the most
wealthy and respectable of them to be Judges, Aldermen, &" they
declined it by letter on the ground that they were not prepared to
abjure their subjection to the King of Spain and take the oath of
allegiance to the United States, altho' you will see in my circular that
it is not expressed as a prerequisite, but even if I had not thought it
a prerequisite, after they had come out and said they could not take
the oath of allegiance to the U. S. I could not then have thought it
proper to appoint anyone of them, I then filled up the commissions in
the best way I could, as you will see by the list marked B.”—Accord-
ingly under the waving flag of the Union, on the 25* the civil officers
assembled with a large concourse of people, some officers of the Army
and Navy were present and forty odd Indians who had just come in.
I opened the ceremony by a short address confined to the occasion,
then administered the oath to Judge Fitch, who successively swore
in Col. Forbes the new Mayor and the other officers,” and the registry
for naturalization was opened at the same time; the meeting was then
closed, the City Council to meet on the 27* I then opened the talk
with the Indians, which turned out to be not of sufficient consequence
to detail to you, I requested Captain Bell to be present and to take
note of it, which he did, and if anything shall grow out of it worth
communicating, it will be done. On the 27* the city council met,
and I sent them the enclosed Executive communication marked C *—
There is from various unofficial accounts some disturbance and dis-
tractions amongst the Indians, I shall in a few days have a Chief in,
and shall endeavour to procure all necessary information, which shall
be transmitted forthwith. I believe things are exaggerated by some
of our countrymen who may be mischievously and illegally inter-
meddling amongst them, this is necessary to be known, and I will as
soon as possible procure and transmit the information—I have thus
briefly endeavoured to detail our acts and views consecutively as they
have transpired, I will now cast an eye retrospectively by way of
* The copy enclosed is to Juan Fondless de Entralgo, dated Aug. 22, 1821,
offering him “the situation of one of the Judges of the County Court . . .”
* Not present.
* An account of this meeting, printed in the Fla. Gazette, Sept. 1, 1821, lists,
besides the officers mentioned in Worthington's letter, others as follows: John
Bickley and T. H. Penn as justices of the quorum, William Reynolds and Farquhar
Bethune as justices from the country, all of whom were to form a county court;
J. R. Hanham as high sheriff; Antelme Gay, Daniel Copp, F. J. Fatio, Charles
Robion, Philo Andrews, and A. Triay as aldermen; Gam. Darling as high constable,
and J. DuBose as justice of the peace.
25 Present.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 195
recapitulating the secondary and minor incidents. With the deter-
mination agreeably to your wish of giving the appointments of prose-
cuting Atty and clerk of the Court of the county of St Johns, to Major
Willis, and Mr Patterson. I waited a week—there are neither of
them here—Judge Fitch and Captain Bell both know M* Patterson
and Major Murray, and I have thought under all circumstances, it
would meet your approbation to appoint Mº Murray, and have done
so, but M* Gibbs is appointed with the express understanding, when
Major Willis arrives to relinquish it to him—M* Gibbs is an old and
respectable man, the court could not go on without these two officers,
it was very requisite at this time, I hope this proceeding will meet
your approbation.
Neither Judge Duval, Mº Bird, M* Hackley, Col. Eustis, &" have
yet arrived—I feel a perfect confidence that as the orb of our civil
government rises and sheds its benign influence in this province, all its
functions will be performed with the utmost harmony.—The civil and
military spheres do not without violence interfere with each other, and
I am resolved to do everything in my power which can be fairly
expected from me to maintain and preserve their mutual peace and
concord, I know this friendship and good will between the Citizen
Soldier, and the soldier citizen in our Republic is what the President
and yourself and every good and reflecting man in our Country
rejoices to see. I am led to these remarks from having understood
that before I arrived here there was considerable feeling excited in
this city. As on occasions of this sort, generally both parties are more
or less in the wrong. I did not allude to it in my last letter wishing
that oblivion might weave over it, her impervious web; and to tell
you the truth it is an unpleasant subject to enquire into, and I know of
no good which could arise from stirring up the matter, I have declined
knowing anything of the particulars, but have left them to sleep in the
tomb of the Capulets.-I know that you and the General Government
must dislike being uselessly troubled with such little party bickerings.
I dont know that I have any right to claim a house to keep my office in,
I have therefore not made a demand, altho' I think the old government
house might have been assigned for that purpose, and as a Lieutenant
and Surgeon of the troops were in it, and I understand could not give
it up without an order from the Secretary of War, I wrote him the
short note on the subject marked D.” Whether not only that house
but the house occupied formerly by the Collector of the Customs, and
some others for aught I know, are to be held by one or two persons
placed in each, 'till Col. Eustis, or anyone else comes on to make his
choice, and a half dozen other public buildings are to be kept 'till the
troops shall want them—and all this military establishment, to
* Present; printed ante, p. 180, from the original.



196 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
accomodate only 120. men, with a requisite number of officers, is the
best disposition of those public buildings, I should suppose does not
even afford a question; my own opinion is, that the Fort and its
appendages, for such a place as this ought to be the only exclusive
Military establishment. In time of peace the officers, if they prefer it,
can find the same accomodation which they do in many other of our
cities which have no exclusive quarters appropriated for them—If at
any time it be necessary to remove the men from the Fort, they would
be better placed on the edge, than in the heart of a city, as also hospital
establishments.
I have thought it my duty to invite your attention to this subject,
as you know our citizens are so very watchful and sensible to any-
thing which should have even the slightest squinting towards a
military or any other than a civil constitutional government. I
know that you would not wish any of the U. S. subordinate civil
or military officers, under you; imprudently to be betrayed into any
acts which might give even the captious and evil disposed anything,
like a semblance, of imputation that they would wish to see the civil
subordinate to the military authority, in even the most remote and
recent part of our territories. This I consider would be in repug-
nance to the most sacred interest of the very vital genious of our
country—I know in this sentiment I must have the honour to accord
with you, who I understand have from your early life been bred up to
expound the Laws and Constitution of our country; who in mature
life, after your habits and opinion must have been all formed, laid
aside the civil citizen and took upon you the Republican soldier, and
now exchange the character of a victorious general for that of one of
our principal civil magistrates—It is painful to me to write on this
subject, because it is one which may be perverted to look more like a
matter of selfishness than principle. As to myself, so far as I may be
concerned, I shall with great cheerfulness acquiesce in any decision
which you may think proper to make in the premises—or which may
be made by the Secretary of War—I have no doubt the present state
of things first grew out of the peculiar state of affairs, and is now only
continued, 'till the proper authority can new model it. When the
City council shall report on my communication of yesterday marked C.
I will enclose it without delay.”
I transmit you the Ordinances which have been printed Nº. 1. 2. 3.
4. 5.28
With very great respect, &"
(Signed) W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Secretary &" for East Florida.
27 Answered post, p. 225.
28 Present.



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 197
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 68:LS)
S* AUGUSTINE Aug 28. 1821
SIR, It becomes my unpleasant duty, to inform you of the death of
Lieut Washburn " on the 23° inst I enclose you an account of his
effects (Papers and vouchers not included) the whole is in charge of
the Committee untill further orders from your Department—Lieut &
Acting Adjº Rupp" has been directed to overlook and take charge of the
Public Property late in charge of Mr Washburn untill the arrival of
Col Eustis " to command, or some individual appointed to fill the
place vacated by the death of M* W– and to pay unsettled accounts
amounting to about one hundred & forty dollars.
The new Authorities lately appointed to office in this City under
Mr Sect’ Worthington appear verry anxious to get possession of the
public property within the City, they are highly displeased with me
for not granting them possession at once—Lest they might by repre-
sentation forcibly made to you obtain an order so as to take from us
the only buildings we can occupy for Quarters for the Troops, I
enclose you a letter * from the Army Surgeon by which it will appear
necessary for us to move the Troops from the Fort, The Gov' house
Treasury house, School house and the barracks near the Monastry
we require for the Troops *
Werry respectfully I am Sir Yr Obdt Servt
JN R. BELL Cap' 4 Arty Comd
HoN J: C CALHOUN Sect” of War Washington City
[Endorsed] Bell. J. R. Capt 4 Art? Comº St. Augustine, 28 Aug”,
1821—reports death of L* Washburn—Encloses inventory of his
effects—L* & Act” Adj" Rupp has been ordered to take charge of
public funds & pay some unsettled accounts—relative to public
buildings, occupied as quarters—Encloses a report of Army Surgeon
ABRAHAM BRADLEY, JR. TO MATTHEW M. PAYNE
[NA:PO, PMG Let. Bk. Z]
GENERAL POST OFFICE August 31* 1821
CAPT M. M. PAYNE Fernandina near Sº Marys Ga
SIR We have yours of the 10** M: Acostin * is appt." P master
and the mail is to be delivered at his Office—
A B jr
* Samuel Washburn.
* Joseph D. Rupp.
* Abraham Eustis.
* “Sent to Surga Gen!” [Marginal note on MS.]
* Acknowledged post, p. 219.
* Not found.
* Domingo Acosta.



198 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
POSTAL ROUTE FROM PENSACOLA TO CLAIBORNE, ALA.
[LC:Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 18, 1821]
[August 1821]
There is established in this place a Post-Office, and regular weekly
Mail to Claiborne, Alabama, the most convenient point of intersection,
with the Eastern, Northern, and Southern mails. The Post-Master-
General having made the necessary arrangements, with his usual
promptness and care for the extended usefulness of his department.
[WILLIAM S. SMITH sº TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors:C 37]
PENSACOLA September 3. 1821
THE HONBº SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
SIR, Herewith I have the honor to enclose the copy of a letter ad-
dressed to me by Mr Scott, the Collector of the Customs for this
Port; it was delivered to me by his son, on the day he became of age,
after we had been eight or ten days on board the Brig Enterprize “
on our passage to this place. I did not feel myself at liberty to decline
administering the oaths required, untill our arrival at this place,
though if there had been an ultimate option left me in the case, I
should have deemed it my duty to have deferred it untill arriving;
the oaths as subscribed by M. Scott Jun' " is also enclosed, and with
36 Naval officer for the Port of Pensacola.
* The original records of the Bureau of Customs for this period were destroyed
by fire in the Treasury Department on Mar. 31, 1833. See House Exec. Doc. 22,
23 Cong., 2 sess., and Washington Daily National Intelligencer, Apr. 1, 1833. The
records series cited is composed of transcripts obtained by the department from
the collectors of customs after the fire, but it appears to be only a partial collection
of the correspondence.
** This was a U. S. naval vessel captained by Lt. Comdr. Lawrence Kearny,
who on June 27, 1821, then at Washington, had been instructed by the Secretary
of the Navy to receive on board for conveyance to Pensacola William S. Smith
and wife and Alexander Scott, Jr. (NA, ND, SN Lets. to Officers Ships of War,
Bk. 14). Kearny reported from Pensacola Aug. 24, his arrival there on Aug. 12
and the safe landing of the passengers (NA, ND, SN, Officers Letters, 1823,
Bk. 5).
* Alexander Scott, Jr. evidently became at this time the Inspector of Customs
at Pensacola, a position which he held until illegally suspended by the Collector
on Oct. 29, 1824 (Senate" Report 130, 21 Cong., 1 sess.). After Nov. 1, 1822,
when his father departed," he also served as Deputy Collector. Years later after
the death of Alexander Scott, Jr., his mother, Elizabeth Scott, as his assignee,
obtained compensation, amounting to $3,078, for the period of his suspension
from Sept. 30, 1824 to July 22, 1827, when the machinery of government finally
restored him to the inspectorship (R. Harrison, Auditor of the Treasury, to
Joseph Anderson, Comptroller of the Treasury, Mar. 15, 1833; Treasury State-
>
&



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 199
the letter from the Collector will be the only evidence I have to trans-
mit to the department, of the appointment in question.
Mº Lewis " upon opening the Custom House here, appointed
Mº Thomas Brownjohn an Inspector of the Customs; upon my
arrival Mº Brownjohn applied to me to be continued in the situation,
upon consulting with M* Lewis on the necessity & propriety of employ-
ing two Inspectors of the Customs here at this time, it was determined
that in the course of a very short time it would be indispensable to
the security of the Revenue, that an Inspector should be stationed
at the Barancas (in the immediate vicinity of the entrance to the
Bay on which this Town is situated) whose duty would be to board
all Vessels coming in the harbour, and by his presence become a
check upon the accomplishment of the illicit intentions of the ill
disposed, as well as to be so situated that by opportunely employing
any leisure time with a Boat at his command, a watchful eye might
be kept upon the numerous inlets upon this Coast, situated in an
Easterly direction, within the limits of this district. Mº Brownjohn
has accordingly been retained, his vigilance, intelligence and activity
have already been of essential service, and I have to request your
approval of his appointment as Inspector of the Customs at this port.
From the information I have been able to collect from persons
acquainted with the navigation of the coast of West Florida, there
arises a strong presumption that the employment of a Revenue
Cutter on this station,” will be perhaps indispensable, and one of a
force superior to either of those now empleyed engaged either on the
Mobile or Mississippi district; a row boat is already much wanted,
for the Custom house hitherto the Inspectors have been able to hire
one for the occasion as requisite, but the practice if continued, will
be found bad economy. I would request your approval of the dis-
bursement requisite for the purchase of a boat adapted to the use
for which she will be required. I have embraced this occasion to
make the above suggestions, in anticipation of the instructions with
which I may be honored, from your department; upon the receipt of
those, I shall feel myself more at liberty to enter into a detail of
ment 62520, Mar. 15, 1833; both in NA, HF, 25 Cong., 2 sess.; act approved
Mar. 2, 1833, 6 STAT. 542). Mrs. Scott later sought unsuccessfully to obtain the
payment by the Government of interest on the sum paid her under the act of
Mar. 2, 1833 (bills and a petition referred on Dec. 13, 1837 are in NA, HF, 25
Cong., 2 sess.; House Journal 24 Cong., 2 sess., p. 80, 25 Cong., 2 sess., p. 71).
* Addin Lewis, collector of customs, Mobile, Ala., was instructed by the Sec.
retary of the Treasury, Apr. 10, 1821, to go to Pensacola with Gov. Jackson
and act temporarily as collector of the port (LC, Jackson Papers, vol. 59). For
Lewis, see indexes to Terr. Papers (Miss.), vol. VI, and ibid. (Ala.), vol. XVIII.
* The Revenue Cutter Alabama, Capt. Winslow Foster, visited the coast of
W. Fla. in July 1821 (Foster to Addin Lewis, July 26, and July 27, 1821, NA,
TD, Coll. Customs, Mobile, Rev. Cutter Corresp.). - -



200 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
some points relative to this port and district as a component part of
our sea board, to which the special attention of the officers of the
revenue may be presumed to be directed; if however, those already
appointed to this district should all arrive here, the prospect at present
warrants me in remarking that they will have but little business to
attend to for some time to come.
I am &"
Bay No signature to this letter, but from the best of my recollection,
a Mr Smith was in the office.
REPORT OF ST. AUGUSTINE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY 42
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol. 60:C)
[September 9, 1821]
Report—The undersigned Members of the Committee appointed
by a resolution of the Honorable City Council to prepare a report in
compliance with the requests contained in an official communication
to the Council from W. D. G. Worthington Esq.” Secretary and
acting Govt of East-Florida dated August 27** having been duly
qualified proceeded to obtain information on the following heads as
recommended in his letter of that date: “1*** The national property
transferred to the United States describing it specifically: the uses to
which it was designed under the Spanish Government: the uses to
which it has been assigned since, and at this time: its probable Cost
to the Spanish Government: its value now if sold on a credit of One
two and three years; how much it would bring if rented: what are
tenantable as they now are: how much would repair them: what
would be the best Course for the United States to pursue with them.
2* The property belonging to the City of St. Augustine with the
same Enquiries as above; and what would be the best course for the
City Council to take on it.”
In the first place your Committee beg leave to observe that their
Statement as contained in the Report while answering as far as
practicable to the enquiries on the general state of Public property
does not distinguish the Class or denomination it may fall under
whether National or Municipal: It has been impracticable for the
Committee to act otherwise from the peculiar form of, and measures
adopted by the former Government; the Governor or person in chief
command assuming as a general maxim that whatever, did not apper-
tain to an Individual necessarily fell to the King, and regardless of
* Worthington sent a copy of this report to the Secretary of War (NA, WD,
SW Lets. Recd., W 193).
* Ante, p. 190.
º



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 201
the Rights of the City as a Corporate Body, crowded every public
building with idle Soldiery till crumbling in ruins over thier heads
they were forced to abandon them: In like manner we find trans-
ferred as National property Public Squares, which were always in-
tended for the Ornament Salubrity and Utility of the City: the
Catholic Church, a building raised by individual Subscription and
belonging to the Catholic Congregation, the Burying Ground of the
same which was the Donation of a charitable person, and other
similar inconsistencies.
In this investigation the Committee have taken for their guide the
Iventory of Public property delivered over by the Spanish Engineer,”
and marked N° 3 in the list of documents accompanying the com-
munication from the Executive, but their labours have been much
impeded from the want of the several plans delivered up with that
document, particularly the General plan of the Town, to which con-
tinual reference is made in the Inventory, and upon which it appears
all the public property was distinctly marked: these plans it seems
were taken away from St. Augustine by the United States Commis-
sioner who received the *[Public property from the Spanish Au-
thorities, and unfortunately no copies whatever were made, and noth-
ing has been left to supply their place: It is more peculiarly unfortunate
that no plan remains of any description to serve as a guide in the
decisions upon the various conflicting interests, which necessarily
will come in contact in explaining Nº. 21. of the Inventory before
mentioned, in which it is specifically stated that within the limits of
the City there are many pieces of ground occupied by individuals who
have no good Title thereto and that all such are to be considered as
Public property and forming part of the formal delivery: in the same
manner there is stated to be a piece of ground between the Powder
Magazine and Fort Maria Sanchez as Public Property without
defining its limits.-
The Committee respectfully submit the following abstract result of
their enquiries classed under the different heads as requested, ac-
companied by their observations thereon: The Numeration of the
Public property in this abstract is the same as in the Engineers
Inventory aforesaid N° 3; in which the said property will be found to
be Specifically described.*—
N° 1. The Fort. As no doubt can exist as to this, & as it is intirely
within the Controul of the military the Committee have nothing to
observe hereupon
* See ante, p. 169.
** The bracketed portion of this document is missing. It has been supplied
from the War Department copy.
* A tabular abstract concerning the properties is omitted in the interest of
space economy. Following are observations on the abstract.



202 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
N° 2. The Limes. At present the Lines are considered as being
occupied by the military: whether it be elligible or not to keep them in
repair is not the object of the Committee to enquire, but as the Guard
at the Gate of the Town is no longer continued and as the Guard
House is placed in the middle of the Street obstructing the way and
becoming a nuisance, the Committee would recommend the removal
thereof immediately
N° 3. The Powder Magazine & Guard House. As only a small
quantity of damaged powder is deposited in this building and as much
inconvenience is felt for want of a Public Prison, the Committee
strongly recommend its temporary appropriation for that purpose
The Guard House might well serve as a kitchen for the Jailor and the
Magazine is well adapted as a place of Security.—
Nº. 4. The Burnt Barrack Lot.—The old chimnies remaining on the
Ground were sold some years back to M' Gay: The Lot is recom-
mended by the Committee for Sale.—
N° 5. The Old Convent.—The Committee have directed considerable
attention to this Building from a conviction of the great general uses
to which it might be appropriated if put in good repair: The walls
appear generally to be good with a few exceptions which might be
easily and substantially remedied.—
There are] Eight large Saloons on the upper Story: the four on the
Wings 50 ft. by 24: the four central ones 36. feet by 24; and a similar
distribution on the Ground floor: a thorough repair of the Roof,
new laying the floors, new doors and Windows and other repairs to
make the Building serviceable would probably occasion an expence
of $6,000; which would be amply repaid by the accommodations it
would afford for every branch of National, Territorial and Civic
Business; but about one half of the above sum would place it for
immediate purposes in tolerable good order: The Spacious Court
Yard in the rear and its Eligible situation would probably make it
even more adapted for a College than any, other purpose, at all events
its immediate repair is an object of the first importance.
Contiguous to this old Convent is a large range of old Stone Offices
totally in ruins: The Committee beg leave to recommend that an
immediate Sale of the materials be made, to be of course removed, as
in their present state they are a nuisance, and the sum of 600$ at
least would be obtained therefrom.
Nº. 6. The Government House. This Building was alway occupied
as the residence of the Governors of this Province until falling into
decay it was considered only fit to have the habitable Rooms appro-
priated for Soldiers quarters: but the late Governor had not long since,
began to make considerable repairs to it, and had entertained the
intention of moving into it had not the Evacuation of the Province
taken place: The Committee have estimated the Sum of $2000 as



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 203
necessary to complete the repairs and make this Building suitable
for a Town-Hall and City Offices; or as a State-House for Territorial
purposes, or for the accomodation of Public Officers: at present it
affords quarters to five Officers of the United States Troops. The lot
being very spacious other Buildings might be Erected there as re-
quired.
N°7 The Custom House. &c. This Building consists of two Wings:
The Southern wing in its upper part furnishes Offices for the United
States revenue; the lower part is a Guard-House which will evidently
be required for the City Patrol: the northern wing is occupied as
quarters by the Commanding Officer of the Garrison above, and as
the United-States Stores below. Whether this Building is necessary
or not for the small peace Establishment now stationed here the
Committee are unable to say, but all the other public buildings are
so completely ruinous that in the event of the arrival of the Chief
Magistrate, this would be found to be the only one immediately
tenantable.
N° 8. The National School. The Committee recommend that this
Building continue as a temporary accommodation for the City Council
above; and that the lower part be appropriated for the present for
holding the Territorial Court: And the Committee cannot point
out for Divine worship on the Sabbath any Rooms more appropriate
than these.
N° 9. The Black-Smiths Shop or Smithy. The Committee recom-
mend the Sale of this lot; it is however their duty to observe that the
Smith placed there by the Spanish Government was induced (from
hopes held out to him of having an absolute grant of the whole for
Services) to make considerable additions to the lot and buildings, the
value of which the Committee estimate at $200; which improvements
the Committee recommend to be retained and not taken away, and
that the Smith be reimbursed the above sum out of the proceeds of
the sale of the lot and Building
N° 10. The Burnt Hospital lot. The Committee recommend this
lot and the ruins thereon to be sold.
N° 11. Hospital and Shop. The Committee beg permission most
strongly to recommend the removal of this Hospital from the Centre
of the Town to a place where it might be established with propriety:
(see N° 20.) Its situation in so public a place is evidently improper
and even indecent. The lot is recommended for sale, the present
ruinous state of the Building not justifying the expence of repairs.
Should any interval occur between the removal of the Hospital and
the Sale, the Rooms are well adapted for temporary public Offices.
N°12. Dragoon Barracks. Recomended to be sold.
N° 13. Old Powder-House. This old building is situated in the
Centre of a Lot containing about 10 acres of land whose value is esti-



204 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
mated at $100. p" acre: the remote situation, the absolute ruin of the
House, and the lowness of the Ground do not Justify a higher value:
The Committee recommend that it be sold.
Nº 14 The Look-out º Not conceived within the scope of
No 15 Matanzas Tower. this report.
No 16. The old Church lot. Recommended to be sold.
N°17. The Market Place. The small wooden buildings & Sheds
erected on this public square are strongly recommended by the Com-
mittee to be removed as a public nuisance. They were always con-
sidered as temporary and liable to be taken away at a moments
notice: they produce little or no revenue and spoil the appearance of
the Square. The Stone market may remain till a more suitable place
can be provided.
No 18. The Catholic ave These are considered private prop-
No 19. Cemetery. erty.
No 20. Flour Magazine. This Building is occupied by the families
of two or three Soldiers of the United States Troops. It is extremely
well calculated for an Hospital: at all events the Committee strongly
recommend the immediate removal to this building for the present of
the Sick from their present situation in the centre of the town.
Nº. 21. Squares and Public places. &c. As no specific definition of
most of these places is given, as as no plan is here to assist the Com-
mittee, they can only mention the Square in front of the Government
House and the one between the Burnt Barracks lot and old Convent,
both of which have always been public Squares they recommend to be
kept as such for the salubrity and Ornament of the City: With respect
to the large portion of Land situated to the North of the Lines and
within the precincts of the City, the Committee are of opinion that for
the present it be considered as the Town Common.
From the foregoing exposition it is Evident that few if any Buildings
are suitable for the well accomodation of the various departments:
consisting generally of large lots and ruinous Edifices, they are in their
present state almost useless although they swell the Inventory and
appear of importance: The Committee respectfully recommend the
Sale of many of them, and the appropriation of the proceeds to the
thorough repair of the Buildings retained. By this a noble range of
Public Halls for every purpose would be obtained without expence,
thereby conferring there an honor on the Corporation and becoming
an Ornament to the Town and an Enhancement of the Province.
The old Convent (Nº. 5) or even the one half thereof would form an
elegant and Spacious College, and situated on the most airy spot of
this Montpelier of North-America would draw Students from all parts
of the Southern Sections of the Union. The Committee refrain from
detailing the advantages that would arise from the redemption of the



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 205
Marsh in the rear of the Town, as they have for the causes before stated
no means of ascertaining whether it is public or private property.
The Committee cannot close this report without respectfully and
earnestly recommending that measures be adopted for the return of
the Plans originally delivered by the Spanish Government to the
United States Commissioners and also of Stating that among the
Archives not given up by the Ex-Governor, there is a large mass of
Documents exclusively appertaining to the Office of the City Engineer
which are of the utmost importance both to the Corporation and to
the Territorial Government: but of which no public mention or
intention of delivery has been made *
Signed P. Lynch—
W* Livingstone
Charles Vignoles.
St. Augustine Sept' 9" 1821.
[Endorsed] F. Report of the Committee on Public Property.
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., J42:LS 46]
PENSACOLA September 17* 1821.
HON. J. CALHOUN Sec. at War.
SIR, By last mail I received enclosed to me by Capt." Bell,” com-
manding, and executing the civil government at S* Augustin, the
unauthorised talk held by Horatio Dexter and Mº Wanton, with what
they are pleased to call the king of the Siminoles and fifty four of the
principal indians present. It appears that this talk with the Semi-
moles, has been forwarded to some of the departments, whether to you
is not mentioned, and were it not for its novelty, and the object which
appears obvious, I should not have troubled you with the transmission
of such a paper, or with any comments upon it. The object of this
unauthorised proceeding appears to me, evidently to be, first, on the
part of Dexter & Wanton to obtrude themselves on the notice of the
Government, and secondly, to impress on the minds of the Indians,
their absolute right to the country. I have written to Mº Worth-
ington to seize these self made Indian agents,” and detain them until
the instructions of the Government can be had. And this talk proves
the necessity of Congress taking the subject up, and by law prescrib-
ing bounds to the Seminoles.
* For the decision of the Government, see post, p. 279.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 911–912.
* Not present. Cf. Bell to the Secretary of War, Aug. 14, 1821, ante, p. 169.
* Infra.



206 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
The exposed situation of the Floridas, imperiously demands, that
its frontier upon the coast, if it may be so expressed, should be im-
mediately inhabited by our white citizens. The Indians, at present,
are scattered from Florida Point to the Chactahatchy. If you attempt
to concentrate or consolidate them, at the Micksucky Pond, or Old
Towns, you offend those that are situated on the Suwaney, on the
Latchua Plains, or on the Peninsula. As they have been continually
at war with the United States, until conquered in the Spring of 1818,
when they were ordered up above the Florida line where the nation
to which they originally belonged, was willing to receive them, such
a measure would reconcile all. This is what they expected, and what
good policy and the safety of the Georgia frontier required. But
this is what these unauthorised Indian agents, who offer their services
to both parties, as I conceive, wish to prevent, and on which the
Government ought seriously to reflect. The Government cannot
turn the torrent of emigration to the Floridas without great expence;
good policy and the safety of the frontier, in my opinion, require that
the govenmet should promote emigration to this country, and hasten
its admission as a State into the Union.
If the Indians be removed within the limits of the country assigned
to the Creek nation, (of which the Seminoles are a part,) this object,
on which the security of the Southern border so much depends, will
be speedily attained. With what pretence of justice can those who
fled from the Creek nation, and kept up an exterminating war on our
frontier until crushed by the arm of our government in 1818, set up
such claims? And is the safety of our frontier to be jeopardised by
the complaints of a few indians excited by would be indian agents,
and indian treaty makers, who compose flowry talks for them and
put words into their mouths they never conceived, and make indian
chiefs to suit their own views, and who were never heard of as such
before? The greater part of the indians now in the Floridas consist
of those who fled in the manner already mentioned, and why should
we hesitate to order them up at once, when the Executive goverment
with the aid of Congress, can do ample justice, by law if necessary,
de-ample—justiee to those who deserve it, by giving such equivalent
as will enable them to settle their families [indecipherable word crossed
out] in the upper country, and to cultivate their farms. Unless the
Indians be consolidated at one point, where is the country that can
be brought into market, from which the five millions are to be raised,
to meet the claims of our citizens under the late treaty with Spain?
I received by last mail a letter from Mº Peniers of the 14” of May
last,” and another of the tenth of July.” By the latter, he informs
49 Not found.
30 Not found.



FLOR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 207
me he is about to proceed to the Havanna to enquire whether any
treaties have been made with the Indians by Spain. Whether this
be in pursuance of instructions from you, I am not advised; but surely
the Government of the United States, is competent to regulate the
concerns of these indians and mete to them every justice to which
they are entitled, and to make such regulations as the safety of the
frontier may require, without referrence to any treaty with Spain,
and particularly when it is notorious, that the greater part of those
Indians, as already observed, fled from the creek nation in 1813 and
1814, adhered to our enemies, continued their warefare under the
excitement of British agents and Spanish incendiaries, until the
United States from self defence were compelled to chastice and
conquer them.
I have made enquiries for a proper character duly qualified to act as
interpreter for Mº Peniers. It requires, as M* Peniers does not speak
english, that that interpreter should speak, the English, Indian, and
French languages. Such a one is difficult to be found, in short I can
hear of none but M'Hambly, and for him I have sent, but am informed
that he is with the Creek agent. I advised you in my last that the
indisposition of M*J. would compel me to travel with her as soon as
her health would permet, out of this Southern climate; and this would
prevent me from holding a treaty with the indians, although to speak
candidly I am determined never to be concerned in another. I do
think it not only useless but absurd. When Congress has the power to
regulate all Indian concerns, by act of Congress, and the arm of the
government is sufficiently strong to carry such regulations into effect.
More general justice can be done to the Indians, in this way than by
treaty. When the policy of treating with the indians was first adopted
it was at a time when we found them thrown upon our hands by the
treaty of 1783, without any provision being made for them, and at that
time they were numerous and hostile, while the arm of the government
was too weak to enforce such regulations as justice and good policy
required, hence the necessity of managing them by treaties. But
this has passed away, the arm of government is sufficient to protect
them and to carry into execution any measures called for by justice
to them, or by the Safety of our frehtier borders. Hence the absurdity
of holding treaties with indian tribes within our territorial limits,
subject to our sovregnty and municipal regulations, and to whom,
by legislation, every justice can be done, and the safety of our South-
ern frontier perfectly secured.
These were some of the reasons that weighed upon my mind for
addressing the government on this subject last Spring, in hopes that
I would be authorised by the Executive to have carried into full
effect the orders I had given them in 1818, and which had been given
after consulting the chiefs of the Creek nation and finding it to be



208 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
their wish and that they were willing to receive them. At that time
many of them went up and I am informed are now living happily
there. I pray you to look at the map of the Floridas and you will at
one glance see that to locate them in the Floridas, they will greatly
weaken your frontier, when by removing them you clear the Southern
borders of all Indians."
Since writing the foregoing, I have made enquiry respecting Dexter,
and Wanton, and am informed by a gentleman on whom, from his
character and standing in Society every reliance can be placed, that
those persons are profligate characters, and are and have been engaged
in forming a settlement a settlement in the Alatchua plains under
the grant of the duke de Alagon, and it is said have obtained a grant
from the indians by deed duly executed before witnesses, relinquishing
to them all indian claim to a large tract of country. From the bare
reading of Dexters letter, and the Indian talk, I was impressed with
the belief that Mess” Dexter, and Wanton were just such characters
as above described, and in whom no confidence ought to be placed,
and who ought, as I have directed, to be sent beyond the Floridas.
Nothing more clearly proves the imperious necessity of ordering those
deluded Indians to the upper country, where they can be kept clear of
such improper and mischievous influence, where they can be protected
and made happy by the bounty and humanity of of our Governmt”
I am, Sir, Respectfully Your Most Obed" Ser"
ANDREW JACKSON Gov' of the Floridas &c. &c. &c
THE HONBLE J. C. CALHOUN Sec of War
[Endorsed] Jackson, A. Sept 17 1821 Gen' Jackson Gov' &c, &c.
Pensacola, 17 Sep", 1821 Enclosing a letter from Capt Bell containing
*1 In a lengthy letter from the President to the Secretary of War, written at
his retreat at Oak Hill, Va., Oct. 11, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., P 84),
occurs the following passage:
“I return you the papers, relating to the Indians in Florida, . . . . The
measure taken in regard to the Indians, was noticed in my letter by the last mail.
In the present state of information, we can do nothing more than to add to our
stock, by the means already adopted. Capt." Bell with Mr Peniers will doubtless
enable us, by what they will acquire, & transmit, to take such steps as may be
proper, & to which our present powers are competent, & where they are not, to
present such a view before Congress, as # may enable it to supply the deficiency.
I am well aware, that every thing that, respecting the Indians, as to title to land,
and indeed as to the whites, in that and every other respect, is in the utmost
confusion. We must do all that we can to preserve order there till the meeting
of Congress, & to enable that body, by communicating to it all the light necessary
for the purpose, to secure it afterwards.”
* Answered post, p. 278. See also the Secretary of War to the President, Sept.
25, 1821 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets., printed, Jameson, ed., Corr. Calhoun, in A. H. A.
Annual Report for 1899, II, 197–198), in which he stated he had vested Capt. Bell
with temporary authority as Indian agent and had authorized him to repair, with
the subagent, to the Seminole Indians for conferences.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 209
one from H. S. Dexter enclosing a Talk. & in relation thereto. recom-
mends that the Indians be ordered up above the Florida line, thinks
treaties with Indians no longer advisable. &c, &c, &c
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M)
PENSACOLA Sept 18–1821.
SIR/ By a letter received by last mail from Captain J. R. Bell "
commanding Officer at St Augustine and exercising in your absence,
the duties of Secretary of East Florida, with the powers of the former
Governor I am advised of your just having arrived in the Bay of St
Augustine, I therefore hope you are safely landed and now exercising
the duties assigned you agreeably to my several letters “of instructions
up to the 27* of July,” the receipt of which have been acknowledged
by Captain Bell and likewise my communications of the 13" of
August * and 1" of Sept: " the first of which was forwarded by Mr
Bird district Attorney of East Florida and the other by mail, which I
hope have reached you, and to which I refer you.
Capt" Bell has forwarded me a talk held with the Indians by M*
Wanton and Horatio S. Dexter; you will immediately make enquiry
by what authority they held this talk, and if unauthorized, you will
immediately have them arrested and sent beyond the limits of the
Floridas; for individuals unauthorized by the Government, must not
be permitted to hold talks with the Indians as much injury may result
therefrom and I confidently rely upon your preventing it in future.
I have been authorized to appoint an Agent to hold a conference
with the Indians within the Floridas—But until M. Penniers the Sub
Agent of Indian Affairs arrives or until I hear from the Government
to whom I have written for instructions on this subject I shall neither
appoint an Agent or attempt to convene the Indians—indeed they
are so scattered over the Floridas that it would be impossible
at this season to collect them. I had expected that the Gov" would
have ordered them up within the limits reserved for the Creek Nation
and by just regulations have made them happy and contented there,
for as long as they are scattered over the Floridas, they will be inter-
* Not found. Worthington arrived at St. Augustine Aug. 17, 1821 (ante, p.
171).
* See ante, pp. 91, 133.
* LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
** Ante, p. 167, under date of Aug. 9, 1821.
57 NA (loc. cit.), printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 796–797, and in Pensacola
Floridian, June 22, 1822.
301867–56—15



210 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
rupted by the Whites, and if they remain, it is absolutely necessary
that they should be concentrated at some point, which will create as
much dissatisfaction, as if they had at once been removed, where they
must ultimately be located—in the Creek nation—You can assure
them that they will be justly dealt with, but that they must recollect,
they had commenced and continued upon our frontier inhabitants,
an exterminating war, to which they had been excited by British
and Spanish Agents until in 1818 the U. S. were compelled to chastise
and subdue them when they were ordered up to the Creek Nation, as
one of the conditions upon which peace was granted them—The
greater part of the Indians now in the Floridas are those who fled
from the Creek Nation in 1814 when that nation was subdued and
peace granted; they cannot now expect to be indulged by being
permitted to remain in the Floridas. whatever the Government may
grant to those who were at that time settled there—On this subject I
am awaiting the instructions of the President of the U. S. and so soon
as received you shall be advised of them; in the mean time you will do
every thing in your power to Keep them peaceable, and remove from
the Floridas any selfcreated agents or treaty makers, whom you may
find among the Indians.
I am Sir with great respect Yº most Obdet Servt
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON Gov. of the Floridas &" &" &".
W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Esq." Sect” of E Florida
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., J. 43:LS)
PENSACOLA Sept. 20° 1821
SIR, Since I closed my letter of the 17* inst.* to you, Neamothla,
one of the chiefs of the Florida Indians, accompanied by the Mulatto
chief and John Blount with an Interpreter, Stephen Richards, have
visitted me. From the enclosed talk held with them marked, A,”
you will discover the object of their visit, their disposition and wishes.
They have left me, well pleased, and happy to hear that a country will
be given them some where by the President of the U States, in which
they will be collected and settled, and receive the protection of the U.
States. They acknowledge that it is just, that those who rejected
peace when it was offered to them, and fled from their own country,
continuing the war, ought to return to their own nation, that they
believe all those are willing to return, but are afraid, that they will not
be protected.
* Ante, p. 205.
* Printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 118–121.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 211
I have written to Gen" M*Intosh * on this and other subjects, a
copy of which I also enclose you; I have no doubt, it being made
known to them through the Agent of the Creek nation, that they must
return and that on their return they will be protected, the whole
would immediately move up, and as these Indians can have no claim
to lands in the Floridas, humanity and justice is sufficiently extended
to them by such permission to return, and live in peace with their
own nation, and their nation cannot complain or object to this.
There is but one point at which the natives of Florida can be
concentrated, without weakening the borders of Florida too much,
and that is, on the banks of the Appalachicola adjoining the southern
boundary of Alabama and Georgia, and running down the river on
both sides so as to include a sufficient area for the real natives of that
country. This might infringe a little upon the large grant to Forbes
and Co." but it would be better thus, than leave St. Augustine and
Pensacola exposed—There a white settlement would be interposed
between them and the sea shore, and the Georgia and Alabama settle-
ments in their rear, would insure peace with them. I have thought
proper to make this suggestion for the consideration of the President,
and I am sure it will give general satisfaction to the Indians, if Con-
gress will lay off a boundary for them where I have suggested; but still,
I am of opinion, from the smalness of their numbers, and the shape of
the Floridas that it would be much better policy to move them all up,
and amply provide for them by an annuity.
I have directed the chiefs to send the talk required to this place, it
will follow me and I can send it on to the President through you, and
as soon as it is received, the President can take such an order upon it
as he may deem most proper. I have assured them that he will either
send an agent to give them a talk, or invite the chiefs to Washington;
they are content either way, but expressed a wish that they might be
invited to proceed to the City of Washington—on the latter course
being adopted, it would be well that they should be there when Con-
gress is in Session, and that Congress should pass the law whilst they
are there.
Neamothla requested, that Isaae Stephen Richards might be his
Interpreter, to hold the talks with the other tribes, that he had hired
* Sept. 19, 1821, to the effect that he should prevent warriors from disturbing
Indians in Florida (LC, Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
* To John Forbes and Co., successor to Panton, Leslie and Co., the Lower
Creeks and Seminoles made a large grant of land in 1804 between the Apalachicola
and Apalachee rivers, which was confirmed by the Spanish Government. The
history of the “Forbes Purchase”, as this grant was called, can be traced in
A. S. P., Pub. Lands, IV, 159–169; Historical Records Survey, Florida, Spanish
Land Grants in Florida; Briefed Translations from the Archives of the Boards of
Commissioners for Ascertaining Claims and Titles to Land in the Territory of
Florida (Tallahassee, 1940–1941, 5 vols.), III, 132–138.



212 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
him to come here, and hoped I would request his father the President
that he would pay him for it: I answered, that I would make it known
to his father the President, and I had but little doubt he would order
Mr Richards to be paid for coming here with him; that I approved his
selecting Mº Richards as Interpreter, and would make it known to
his Father. I hope this request may be granted; I have furnished
them with provisions, paid their tavern bill, and gave them one dollar
to pay their passage across the Bay—they have left me in a good hu-
mour and well satisfied.
Referring to my last letter with which this is enclosed, ”I gave
you some information of the attempt of Dexter and Wonton to
establish themselves on the Alatchua plains under a Spanish grant;
to give you further information on this subject I enelese send you
an extract of a letter to me from a gentleman of high standing and
character who has visitted that country,” and in whose veracity
every confidence may be placed. When Congress meets, every care
ought to be taken by law to put down all such fraudulent Spanish
Grants, of which there will be found hundreds, and in the meantime
to protect the title when possession is had agreeably to the Spanish
Law, and in no other case whatever ought titles to be made valid.
Mr George I. Brown of Baltimore son of Doctor Brown of that
place, has lately explored the country on the St Johns River; he returns
to Baltimore, is intelligent and can give a very satisfactory account
of things as they are there, is of a good character, is about to move to
the Floridas, and if the Government has any use for an Agent, in him,
from letters to me it will find a faithful and capable agent.
From the information of Capt Bell, I am fearful that Mº Penneers
will not answer the expectations of the Government.
Extract, before alluded to, “In compliance with your wish I here-
with place before you such information of the Alatchua country
as I became acquainted with during my residence in East Florida.
In the month of April last, I proceeded to the Sº Johns accompanied
by Horatio Dexter to his residence six miles south of Lake George—
On our arrival we found the gentleman who took charge of the estab-
lishment during Mº Dexters absence extremely unwell, and at the
urgent solicitation of Mº Dexter I agreed to remain a short time
as it was necessary for him to accompany the chiefs of the Seminoles
to St Augustine, whose object was to ascertain from Govt Coppinger
what provisions were made for them by the Spanish Government,
and to be informed ef by what title the whites had taken possession
and were forming settlements in the Alatchua country. The chiefs
Pond Governor, Coosa, Taskchee and two others whose names
I do not recollect visitted the Governor who informed them that
* Ante, p. 205.
* Not present, and not identified.



FLO R. I D A T E R R IT OR Y 213
the title to the Alatchua was granted by the Cap' Gen' of Cuba to a
Mº Aredondo a resident of St Augustine. Alatchua is represented
as a very fertile district, and as an inducement to settlers the pro-
prietors M* Wonton, Dexter, Aredondo and Mitchell “ have offered
fifty acres of land to those who may agree to reside there. M* Wonton
who is well known among the Seminoles and who has great influence
among them has established a store for the supply of the Indians. In
May last, the chiefs met M. Wonton and Dexter, and held a talk with
them, and at the same time recognised the right of the proprietors
to the grant, stipulating also that a store properly supplied with
essentials should be Kept in the Alatchua”.--
I shall leave this early in October to carry my family home; but
should information make it necessary for my return I will do so,
not otherwise. Doc" Bronough will proceed with me and continue
his journey to the city—by him I shall forward my resignation to
the President, to be laid before Congress, that another may be
appointed—My labours have been great and very fatiguing.”
I am Sir with great respect Yº Mo Obt Sert.
ANDREW JACKSON Gov" of the Floridas &c. &c. &c
THE HONBLE J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
[Endorsed] Nº 2–Sepr 20, 1821 Gen' Jackson Pensacola, Enclosing
a talk with Florida Ind”, and a letter to G" M*Intosh in relation
thereto; also relative to G. I. Brown, to Dexter & Wanton, &c, &c
DANIEL BRENT TO JAMES G. FORBES
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 24 Sep 1821
JAMES GRANT FORBES Esquire. Sº Augustine East Florida
SIR. Upon the Secretarys leaving this place for Boston some time
ago, he desired me to acknowledge the receipt of your Letters to him,
not heretofore acknowledged, and to inform you that upon his return
in October, he would write you particularly, himself. I have the
honour accordingly to inform you that your Letters of the 15 & 15"
* Peter Mitchell, who had an interest in the Arredondo grant.
** Answered post, p. 278. In a letter of Dec. 6, 1821;(LC, Jackson Lets. and
Orders. Bk. M.), Jackson expressed his gratification at the approval by the Secre-
tary of War of his views regarding the concentration of the Indians, and suggested
the building of a fort at Tampa. See also extract, Jackson to the Secretary of
War, Sept. 2, 1821 (A. S. P., Indian Affairs, II, 414), declaring he would hold no
talks with the Indians until receipt of instructions, and criticising Penieres'
estimate of the number of Indians in Florida, and the number of white inhabitants
in Pensacola. Jackson estimated the latter at 3000 persons. Cf. post, p. 508.
* One letter of this date has been found. It is in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers. v).



214 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
and 23 March," 28 April,” 5.* 7.70 9.7, 14.7° 17.7s 22.7' 23.7s 28 7" & 30
May,” 9 * and 25 June,” 14. July * public and private 29 July.”
18 August * and 4* instant * with three enclosures have been duly
received at this Office; and I take advantage of the Occasion to men-
tion, that some surprize appears to have been excited at Pensacola, by
the circumstance of your having appointed, no Deputy for that part
of your District.
I am, Sir, respectfully, your ob. & very hum. Ser'
DANIEL BRENT,
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
ABRAHAM EUSTIS 84
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C)
STAUGUSTINE Sept; 27th 1821
SIR. I enclose a Resolution of the Board of Health of this City of
this date, requesting the removal of the Hospital from the Center of
the City, which I trust you will order to be done, as it appears to be
right & proper—
Yours very respectfully &"
(Signed) W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of E. Florida
COL" EUSTIS Comm” the U. States Troops—St Augustine
[Endorsed] Sep 27. Worthington to Col Eustis—K.
*7 NA (loc. cit.).
* NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 742.
* NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 743–744.
70 NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 744.
7, NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 744.
7, NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 745.
7; NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 745.
7° NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 746.
75 NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 746.
7° NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 746—747.
77 NA (loc. cit.); printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 748.
* Ante, p. 64.
7° Ante, p. 93.
* NA (loc. cit.). The private letter is ante, p. 117.
* Ante, p. 136.
* Ante, p. 171.
* NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii).
* Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p. 247).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 215
JOHN R. BELL TO ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON
(EAST FLORIDA) *
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C)
St AUGUSTINE Sept. 27* 1821.
SIR, Lieut Colonel Eustis has placed in my hands two communica-
tions from you of this date,” addressed to him as commanding United
States Troops in Sº Augustine; one covering a letter from the City.
Council of Sº Augustine, stating that “unless another place be pro-
cured, if the present Council-Chamber is to be taken possession of by
the United States Troops, they must relinquish their commissions”.
The other enclosed “a Resolution of the Board of health of this City
of this date requesting the removal of the Hospital from the Centre of
this City.
My letter of this date addressed to his Honor the Mayor is signed
officially as Capt commanding; * which the Committee appointed by
the Council, submitted to you with theirs, I am at a loss to divine the
reason of your addressing Col' Eustis as commanding, unless you
would believe me capable of imposing a communication on the
Mayor under an official Signature, unauthorised or assumed.—The
Colonel's reply to your communications above alluded to * will
satisfy you, that I have yet the honor to Command “the detachment
stationed at Fort S*Marks”.
On your arrival in this City, you found me provisionally acting as
Secretary of the Province, vested with all the powers of the late
Governor Coppinger, by a commission from Gen' Jackson Governor
of the Provinces; from me you received all the instruments, docu-
ments, ordinances and instructions for your information and Govern-
ment, which had come into my possession from the American com-
missioner, and Governor Jackson—In none of them do you find any
authority given you, or the City-Council to take possession of, or in
any way to occupy the public property and edifices, on the contrary
you find by the American Commissioner's letter dated 11* July
addressed to me * where he says “The establishment of the Pilots will
necessarily meet your attention, and you will make such disposition of
the Public-property until you receive formal instructions as will best
secure it from injury having regard to the circumstances in which
some of it is placed by Settlers Occupying it, under the permission of
the Spanish Authorities”.--When the City Council was about to be
organized under your Jurisdiction, the Key of the door of the Council
* Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p.247).
* Supra and infra.
* Not found.
* Post, p. 218.
* Ante, p. 114.



216 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Chamber (as it is styled) was delivered to his Honor the Mayor with
a perfect understanding that it could be occupied for the use of the
Corporation until it became necessary to remove the troops from the
Fort, which I anticipated must take place in consequence of the
dampness of the Casemates occupied by them and a want of a circula-
tion of air and I am confident of having named my apprehensions to
you on that subject as well as to most of the members composing the
Council—This same building was occupied by the Spanish Troops on
our taking possession; and was afterwards occupied by the Same
Company now ordered to it from the fort. Now by what right you
or the City Council you have to Occupy that Edifice to the exclusion
of the Military I leave to you to shew, for I do assure you so long as
I have the honor to Command “the System which has been adopted
here” will be “still persisted in respecting the public property” until
otherwise directed by the proper Authority.—An appeal to the
President of the United States if founded in fact, cannot Shew a want
of respect on our part to the “Civil powers”.-And I assure you, altho’
I have been Styled a “young officer” that Such a threat does not
alarm one, who has served his Country from the Burning sands of
Louisina to the frozen Banks of the St Lawrence within the last
twelve years.
The Board of health, it will be recollected is composed of the City
Council with the addition of a Doctor Stone who is resident Physician
of this City—This resolution after the letter addressed to you, of the
same date on the subject of the Council Chamber being about to be
Occupied by the Troops exhibits a feeling and disposition on the part
of that honorable body, which I am truly sorry to see—“taking into
connection” the two Documents produced by the same body and both
growing out of the letter addressed by me to the Mayor informing him
of the necessity of our Occupying the building Known as the “National
School” certainly evinces a disposition hostile to the Military on this
Station, and that evidently countenanced in your communications
now before me. For you not only fully sanction the measures pro-
posed by this seemingly irritated Council, but you use threats which
we are not accustomed to hear from officers in your responsible situa-
tion—That the present situation of the hospital “is Contrary to the
salubrity thereof and injurious to the health and Conforts of the
inhabitants” or that a malignant fever exists there, requires more
proof in my opinion than the mere opinion of the board of health—
Some facts should be stated of the existence of malignant disease
among the Soldiers in hospital before it can be removed, as also that
it is injurious to the health and comfort of the inhabitants, have they
Complained? I apprehend not—One Soldier only has died in the
hospital since this place has been occupied by the United States
Troops, and that death Occurred shortly after our landing—does this



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 217
look like malignant disease? the disease I fear as far as it respects the
hospital, was only imaginary with the Honble the Council.—
I call on you as the patron and protector of the Charity Society of
this City to provide some Suitable place for reception of the persons,
objects, who from misfortune or otherwise are obliged to ask Assistance
from that Society, and have been received into the Army hospital; the
illiberal to say the least of it report of the Board of health makes it
necessary for us to prohibit any other patients in the hospital than
those of the Army "
Under a firm conviction that “the System” I have pursued will
meet the approbation of my Superiors I have the Honor to Subscribe
myself Yours very respectfully
Signed JN" R. BELL Capt. 4* Arty Comº
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Esq." Secretary & Acting Govt of East
Florida St Augustine
[Endorsed] Letter from Captn. Bell to Mr Worthington M.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
ABRAHAM EUSTIS 91
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C]
ST AUGUSTINE Sept. 27th 1821
SIR. I enclose you a letter from the City Council of St. Augustine,”
stating that unless another place be procured, if the present Council
Chamber is to be taken possession of by the United States Troops,
they must relinquish their Commissions—
I hope you will be able to accomodate this matter to the mutual
convenience of both parties—But if the Council are to be forced out,
taking into connection with it the System which has been adopted
here and is still persisted in respecting the Public property, accomo-
dating the Military to the almost total exclusion of the Civil authori-
ties—I shall be obliged to consider this place as a Military Garrison—
in time of profound peace—and shall appeal from such a cource of
proceedings to the President of the United States, to know if the
Civil powers here, are to be placed in this predicament by the Detach-
ment Stationed at Fort St Marks”—
Yours very Respectfully &c
(Signed) W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of E. Florida
COL" EUSTIS Comm" the U. States Troops—St Augustine
[Endorsed] Sep 27. Mr Worthington to Col Eustis I.
* This letter was referred to the Council on Sept. 29, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, VIII), after Worthington had replied to it on Sept. 28, 1821 (post, p. 222).
* Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p, 247).
* Post, p. 218.
* Answered infra.



218 T. E. R. R. I TO R. I. A L P A P E R S
ABRAHAM EUSTIS TO ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON
(EAST FLORIDA) *
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C)
S* AUGUSTINE 27th September 1821—
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge two communications from
your Excel’ under this date, covering resolves of the City Council and
Board of Health of S*Augustine, and addressing to the United States
troops on this Station.” I have to inform your Ex” that I have not
yet assumed the Command of these troops, and that on my arrival
here I informed Cap" Bell, that I should decline doing so until the
last day of the present month. I cannot therefore interfere with his
arrangements in command. I have delivered your Communications
to him with my request that he will Communicate with you on the
Subject to which they relate. Candour obliges me to state to your
Ex” that on the representation of Doctor M'Crosky, army surgeon on
this Station, I did advise Cap" Bell immediately to withdraw the
troops from fort S* Mark, & place them in any Suitable building
withing his controul.
I am with the highest respect Your Exell” very humb. Servt
(Signed) ABR" EUSTIS.—
FoR HIS ExCELLENCY W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Acting Governor
&c &c St Augustine—
[Endorsed] Letter from Col Eustis to Mr Worthington L.
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF ST. AUGUSTINE 96
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C)
(September 27, 1821]
A letter was rec,d from Captain J. R. Bell demanding the immediate
possession for Military uses, of the Building now occupied as a Council
Hall ”—it was therefore the unanimous opinion of the Council that
a Committe be appointed to wait on his excellency the acting Governor
with said letter, and to inform his Excellency, that unless the Civil
Authorities of Said City can remain peaceably in the occupation of
the said House, or some other adequate Building for that purpose the
said Council will feel themselves under the painful necessity of resign-
ing their respective appointments.-His Honor the Mayor, Alderman
Dubose & Copp Compose the Committe
(Signed) J. G. FORBES Mayor
Council Hall Sept. 27* 1821
[Endorsed] Sep 27. Resolution of the City Council of St Augustine G.
9. Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p. 247).
* Supra, and ante, p. 214.
* Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, 247).
27 Not found. Cf. ante, p. 215.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 219
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH OF
ST. AUGUSTINE 98
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C)
(September 27, 1821]
Resolved that the resident Physician His honor the mayor and Mr.
Gay be appointed by this board to wait on the Secretary and Acting
Governor of this Province for the purpose of having the Hospital
as speedily removed from its present situation, to the Flour Magazine
on South Common, as the situation of the Patients therein may admit;
it being the unanimous opinion of the Board that its present situation
is contrary to the salubrity thereof—And injurious to the health and
comfort of the inhabitants more especially at present when a malignant
fever is said to exist.—
Board of Health. St Augustine Septr 27th 1821
(Signed) M. STONE, Pres'
[Endorsed] Sep 27. Resolution of the Board of Health St Augustine
H.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN R. BELL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 28 Septr 1821
CAPTAIN JN* R BELL St Augustine
SIR, I have received your letters of the 3° Sept * & 28 August
with their enclosures, in relation to the Indians in Florida.
It would seem from your Statement as well as from other Sources
of information that the Seminole Indians have been most shamefully
imposed on and barbarously treated both by the Creek Indians and
unprincipled individuals. As little as their past conduct has entitled
them to the kindness of the U States, now they have been brought
under their protection the government will extend towards them
the same justice and generosity which it always has towards the
other Indian tribes within our limits.
It is unfortunate that the sickness of Mº Penieres has prevented
him from reporting personally to General Jackson so as to have had
* Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p. 247).
* Extract printed in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 414, enclosing letter of Aug. 15,
1821, from George J. F. Clarke, a former Spanish official of E. Fla., also printed
ibid., pp. 414–416; in H. Doc. 51, 17 Cong., 2 sess.; and in the St. Augustine
E. Fla. Herald, Mar. 8, 1823. For an account of the career of Clarke, who
remained in E. Fla. and became an American citizen, see Louise B. Hill, “George
J. F. Clarke, 1774–1836” (Fla. Hist. Quar., xxi (Jan. 1943), 197–253).
1 NA (WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 95), enclosing letters from H. S. Dexter, R. M.
Hardy, P. S. Chazotte, and E. M. Wanton exhibiting the distressed condition
of the Florida Indians, their apparent hostility, the presence of runaway slaves
among them, and the threatening attitude of the Creeks towards them.



220 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
the advantage of his orders in discharge of his duties as Sub Agent.
It will be now impracticable for him to report personally to him as he
will leave Pensacola for Nashville about the begining of next month;
and it will be necessary that some one should be appointed under
whose instruction his duties may be performed. Having every con-
fidence in your good Sense you have been Selected for that purpose,
and I have enclosed to you a temporary appointment as Agent; and
Mº Penieres has been directed to report to you for orders and directed
to submit his accounts and disbursements to you for approval.” You
will with as little delay as practicable repair to the Seminole Indians
to be accompanied by the Sub agent and ascertain their actual con-
dition and disposition towards the U States. For this purpose you
are authorized to convene the chiefs, and if you should deem it ad-
visable, the Warriors and explain to them fully their present relation
to the U States and their intention towards them. The U States
consider them under their protection & will extend towards them, if
they demean themselves peaceably, the same justice and liberality,
that they have done to other tribes within their limits; and have
viewed with great disapprobation the injustice and imposition, which
has been practised on them by unprincipled individuals. They par-
ticularly regret the conduct of the party of Creeks, who lately made a
plundering excursion into their Country and of which the Creek
Agent has been informed. Should they attempt to repeat their
excursion they will be held responsible for the consequence. The
government expects that the Slaves who have run away or been
plundered from our Citizens or from Indian tribes within our limits
will be given up peaceably by the Seminole Indians when demanded
through the Agent and satisfactory proof made of the fact.
You will ascertain their opinion of the extent of Country held by
them, and on what condition they hold it, and without stating the
ultimate determination of the Government urge on them the pro-
priety on their own account, either to join the Creeks who I under-
stand will receive them, or to concentrate their people in one place
and become peaceable and industrious farmers. The former would
be more for their interest, and it is hoped they may make Some
arrangements with the Creeks, for that purpose, which, if they do, the
Government will agree to make them such indemnity for the lands
and improvements which they own in Florida as may be just. I will
refer you to the instructions of Mº Penieres * and Gen' Jackson * of
which I enclose you Copies, as an additional illustration of the views
of the government in relation to these Indians.
It is, I find indespensible to their quiet that unprincipled traders
2 Sept. 28, 1821, NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
& Ante, p. 26.
* Ante, p. 25.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 221
and other individuals be removed from among them. None have a
right to remain without your license or that of the Governor; and you
will notify such individuals whom you may find living among them
of the necessity of obtaining license and will remove such as do not
obtain them within a reasonable period to be prescribed by you,
taking care to grant them only to those in whose character you may
confide. The notoriously bad you will cause to be removed without
delay.
I perceive by the letter of Dexter that he appears to act by a power
delegated to him by the Seminole Indians.” Neither he or any other
can exercise such delegated authority with out the sanction of the
Government. Correct information is desired from any source, but
the Indians must be made to understand that no one has a right to
exercise authority for them but such as the government may appoint.
Such opposition of authority is one of the means by which unprincipled
individuals are enabled to fleece these poor ignorant creatures; and it
is proper to observe without forming any opinion as to his Character,
that it has been stated that Dexter is one of those individuals who
has been speculating on the Indians both in the purchase of Negroes
and pretended purchases in land.
You will give the Sub agent such special instructions as you may
judge proper, reporting the same to this Department. You will find
him intelligent and not wholly destitute of a knowledge of the Indian
Character among whom he has resided for several years and if properly
supported by your authority and orders will be very useful. The
place of his residence will be of some importance, and you will report
to this Department at what point it ought to be fixed with your
reasons for the same. I furnish you with a list," (one from Col:
Arbuckle 7 & the other from the Creek Agent *) of Negroes taken from
the Seminole Indians by a party of Creeks; by which it would seem
that many of them belong to the Inhabitants of Florida. I have
referred the subject to the President and have directed the Agent to
hold them in his possession till further orders which when received
will be communicated to you.
You will be reimbursed your necessary expenses in performing the
duties which have been assigned to you as agent, and will be allowed
* See Dexter to Bell, Aug. 12, 1821 (A. S. P., Misc., II, 912), enclosing minutes
of conference of Dexter and Wanton with the Seminoles, May 24, 1821 (ibid.,
p. 913).
* Not present.
7 Matthew Arbuckle. Letter not found.
* John Crowell, who wrote the Secretary of War, Aug. 20, 1821 relative to the
negroes brought to the agency by Creek troops (NA, WD, SW Reg. Lets Recd.).
Another letter from Crowell to the Secretary of War, Jan. 22, 1822 (loc.
cit.), enclosed a list of names of persons to whom negroes were delivered by the
Indian detachment while on the march from Florida to Fort Mitchell. Both
letters are missing from the files. -



222 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
at the rate of three dollars a day while actually engaged. You will
render your Accounts properly certified and supported by the neces-
sary vouchers to this Department for settlement and when absent
from your post on the duties of your Agency, will duly report the same
to the proper Officer. I have transmitted One thousand Dollars in
account to meet the disbursements which may be necessary.
It is confidently expected that your energy and good sense, will
speedily afford to the Seminole Indians that protection and sense of
security which they appear to stand in so much need of and that
your report will furnish full and satisfactory information in relation
to their situation and disposition
I have &"
J C. C.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
JOHN R. BELL 9
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C)
ST AUGUSTINE Sept 28* 1821
SIR I have this moment received yours of the 27* inst.”—From
its whole tenor it seems to me calculated to excite hostile feelings
between the Civil and Military Authorities here if I were disposed to
be wrought upon in this way—I am not, because it does not comport
with either my inclination or my duty—and as I can see no benefit
resulting from entering into a correspondence which may carry with
it the irritation with which your letter is charged, and seeing no
necessity to reply to it more fully, I must decline entering further into
the subjects which were embraced in my letters to Coln. Eustis &
refered to you.-
Yours very Respectfully &c
(Signed) W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON
Secretary and Acting Governor of E. Florida
CAPT. J. R. BELL 4th Artilery Commº
[Endorsed] Sep 28. Mr Worthington to Captn Bell N.
APPOINTMENT OF JOHN R. BELL AS ACTING INDIAN
AGENT
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
[September 29, 1821]
TO CAP’T JOHN R BELL
You are hereby appointed to act as Agent for Indian Affairs in
Florida, during the absence of Governor Jackson, or until further
* Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p. 247).
10 Ante, p. 215.



F L OR I D A T E R RITO R Y 223
orders from this Department and vested for the time being with all
necessary powers for the due execution of Said appointment and will
be respected accordingly.
Given under my hand and the Seal of the War Office of the
Seal United States, at the City of Washington, this 29th day of
September, in the year of our Lord 1821 and of the Independ-
ence of the Said States the 46*
(Signed) J. C. CALHOUN Secº of War
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE CITY COUNCIL OF ST. AUGUSTINE 11
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, viii:C)
Sº AUGUSTINE September 29. 1821
THE HONORABLE THE MAYOR & CITY COUNCIL of Sº Augustine.
GENTLEMEN I enclose you my two letters of the 27* Ins' to Col.
Eustis on the subjects of your two Resolves of that date with his
Answer of the same date *—Also Captain John R. Bells letter,
received about 12. O'Clock on yesterday but dated the day before,
with my notice of the receipt of it, of yesterday—
On the present state of things it would be obtrusive in me, to offer
you any advice, except taking the liberty to request most seriously
that you will still hold your offices & continue to discharge the high &
useful functions reposed in you by your Country”
Very respectfully &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
[Endorsed] Mr Worthington to The Mayor & City Council St
Augustine O.
ALEXANDER. C. W. FANNING TO THE QUARTERMASTER
GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
FORTS". MARKS E. F. 30 Sept. 1821.
SIR Owing to the departure of Col. Arbuckle and his command,”
through whom we formerly sent and received our Communications, I
am now compelled to send an express from this to Fort Mitchell
G*—a distance of one hundred & ninety or two hundred miles—an
express by the orders of Gen Gaines must go twice a month and owing
11 Enclosed in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post, p. 247).
* Ante, pp. 217, 218, 219.
** Answered post, p. 227.
* Arbuckle arrived with his command at Fort Smith, Arkansas Territory,
Feb. 26, 1822 (Terr. Papers, Ark., XIX, 414). See also ibid., p. 412, n.



224 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
to the great distance and the numerous rivers he has to swim cannot
take with him the provisions for himself & forage for his horse neces-
sary—I have designated three stopping places for him to procure
provisions & forage and requested that the accounts may be sent to
the Q' Mº here (L*M*Clintock)* quarterly for payment—The expense
of each trip will be probably ten or fifteen dollars—I request that you
will furnish L* M“Clintock with funds for this contingent—also for
the payment of an interpreter for this post—An interpreter here is of
the first importance to prevent misunderstandings with the indians.
The expense will about 50 cents prºday.”—
I have the honor to be Sir very ResPy Yº Obt Sº
A. C. W. FANNING B Maj. Capt. 2” Rgº Arty
Comº Ft. St Marks.
BRIG GEN. THo" S. JESSUP Q. M. Gen. Washington City
[Addressed] Brig. Gen. Tho" S. Jessup Q. M. Gen Washington City
Service [Postmarked] Coweta G 22 Oct 1821 Free
[Endorsed] Maj' A C W Fanning Fº S' Marks E. F. 30 Sept 1821.24
Oct 1821.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS 19]
WAR DEPT 1st Octr 1821
DEAR SIR, It would seem from the enclosed letters that some
difficulty has occurred at St Augustine between the Civil and Military
officers in relation to the occupancy of the publick buildings.” The
letters and the observations of Majº Cross, who is well acquainted
with the buildings in question, will enable you to understand the
wishes of the officers on both sides; and I must request your instruc-
tions as to the orders to be given to Capt Bell.
With sincere respect I am &c
J. C. CALHOUN
THE PRESIDENT.
|Endorsed] Octr 1. 1821 Mr Calhoun Calhoun John C. 1. Octo.
1821. accompanying Letters relative to controversy between Civil
and Military Officers at St. Augustine—
14 William L. McClintock.
* In reply the Acting Quartermaster General notified Major Fanning, Oct. 25,
1821, that the Secretary of War authorized the use of an express when necessary
for the public service (NA, WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 3).
1° Office copy is in NA (WD, Lets. to Pres., Bk. 2).
17 No enclosures are present with the above letter.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 225
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHING-
TON (EAST FLORIDA)
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M]
PENSACOLA October 1* 1821
GEN' JACKSON TO THE SECY OF E. FLORIDA—
SIR, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your several
letters of the 21*** & 28* of August last " with their enclosures,
which are just at hand, and wishing to answer by the return mail which
closes at 12 Oclock I have but a moment to glance over them—
I am fully satisfied with your organisation of the Government—it
surely would be viewed a great absurdity to see an American Govern-
ment executed by Spanish Officers—It could only be intended, that
the Spanish Officer might be continued, on his swearing allegiance
to the U States, and under its authority, taking the oath of Office.
I regret that Mº Bird has not reached you, by him I wrote you on
this subject.” You have fully met my views in the organisation you
have given to the Government of East Florida, and the appointments
you have made
I feel grateful for your attention to my sollicitude for Majº Willis,
he has been left out of Service and is now cast upon the world for a
support, when he least expected it—poor and pennyless he will be on
as soon as he can travel there from the Bay of St Louis—
The military authority is subordinate to the civil, and bound upon
your requisition to furnish any guard or command that may be neces-
sary to carry your orders into full execution, and I am certain from
the character of the Officers who command them they will with
pleasure yield to your requisition any Troops necessary for carrying
into effect the due execution of the laws—I have sent to the command-
ing officer an order, a copy of which is enclosed, upon this subject—
You, whilst acting as the executive of East Florida, have a right to
occupy the Government house, and the military must be supplied
with quarters in the Forts or Town, or other Public buildings—It is
true I resigned the Government house here to the officers, because
I found it in decay, and that by yielding it to the Officers, and rent-
ing for myself, there would be a great saving to the Public.
I cannot too highly approve the propriety of your sentiments ex-
pressed on that harmony that ought to exist between the civil and
military authorities, and between the military and the citizens of the
country, and I trust and hope, that the same harmony which exists
here between all the authorities and the citizens may exist with you,
should it not, you may rely on all my power and exertions, to restore
19 Not found.
* Ante, p. 193.
* Ante, p. 167, under date of Aug. 9, 1821. Cf. ante, p. 209.
301867–57—16



226 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
it when it does not exist, and to remove every thing which can oppose
a course as desireable and honorable to military men, as it should be
welcome and agreeable to the civil officer and citizen—
On the subject of Indian affairs, I have to refer you to my last letter
of Sept. 18** with this remark, that peace must be obtained and
maintained with the Indians, and it is best always to speak the plain
truth to them, they cannot and must not expect to remain scattered
over the Floridas—The old Red Sticks" must return to the upper
Creeks or be collected where the real natives of Florida may be col-
lected by the Government—I learn that the Perrymans on the
Appilachicola are removing up to the old nation, with their families.
M“Qween's and Franci's “clans must expect to go back to their old
country, or be concentrated with the natives of Florida, already has
a robbery been committed on the Appilachicola Bay by the Indians—
another such offence, you may say to them, will cause a force to be
marched, and punishment inflicted—they must remain peacable, and
every suspicious white man you hear of in the nation, must be
apprehended and sent out of the nation.
The situation of my family will compel me to remove them to
Tennessee, which will occasion my absence from this place awhile—
you will continue to communicate to me here, as I shall direct your
communications to follow me—The Gov" being fully organised, no
injury can arise from my short absence—whether I will have it in my
power to visit St Augustine before the meeting of Congress, I cannot
say—
I am Sir, with great respect Yº Mo Obt Sert.
(Signq, ANDREW JACKSON
Wm. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Esq." Secretary of East Florida
COMMISSION OF JOHN MILLER AS MAYOR OF PENSACOLA
[NA:GAO, Diplomatic and Consular Accts., No. 1576 (1824):DS]
[October 1, 1821]
BY MAJOR GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON Governor of the provinces
of the Floridas exercising the powers of the Captain General and of
the Intendant of the Island of Cuba over the said provinces and of
the Governor's of said provinces respectively—
To Colonel John Miller Greeting:
21 Ante, p. 209.
” The Red Sticks were the hostile war clans of the Creeks and Seminoles which
battled the United States during the Creek and Seminole Wars (Frederick W.
Hodge, ed., Handbook of American Indians North of Merico, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 30 [Washington, 1907), 2 vols., II,
364–365).
* Peter McQueen and Francis (Hillis Hago) were the “Prophets” who had
incited the Red Sticks against the United States (Brevard, Hist. Fla., I, 42,49, 52).



F L O RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 227
Reposing especial trust and confidence in your patriotism, integrity
and abilities, I do hereby constitute, and appoint you to the office of,
Mayor of the city of Pensacola; To have and to hold the said office,
to perform its duties, to enjoy its privileges, and to receive its emolu-
ments according to Law, during the pleasure of the Governor.
Given at Pensacola this first day of October in the year of our Lord
one thousand Eight hundred and twenty one and of the independence
of the United States the forty Sixth-
ANDREW JACKSON Gov" of the Floridas &c. &c. &c
By the Governour—
GEO WALTON Sec. W. Florida
Escambia County Sct: Oct. 8th 1821.
This day the within named Col” Jn" Miller made oath before me
that he would faithfully discharge the duties of Mayor of the city of
Pensacola according to the best of his skill and judgement. Given
under my hand the date above
D. SHANNON J. P. E. C
In Office ’til the 26th Aug 1822 *
JAMES G. FORBES TO ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON
(EAST FLORIDA) *
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, viiI:LS)
S* AUGUSTINE 3°4 October 1821—
SIR. The City Council has done me the honor of authorising me
to reply to your Excellency farther Communication of 29* Ultimo “
upon the subject of its being dispossessed of the apartment hitherto
occupied by it for its sessions & those of the County Court
When it is notorious that the Room taken for the use of the Troops
is the only one known in the whole province that has been devoted
to municipal purposes, the outrage becomes more indignant as the
public buildings in this City are adequate with the addition of a few
Palmeto Leaves (if shingles are considered too expensive) for the
lodgement of ten times the number of privates now in garrison—
The late Resolution of the Council to resign their Commissions
unless they could be permitted to transact their business peaceably
* Enclosed with the above commission is a certificate by Walton that Miller
served from Oct. 1, 1821, until Aug. 24, 1822, and an account in the amount of
$359.78 being salary for ten months and twenty four days. A note on the account
is as follows: “Allowed at the rate of 400$ per year, being the rate of Salary allowed
the Mayor of St. Augustine—J. Q. Adams 10 May 1824—”
* An enclosure in Worthington to the Secretary of State, Oct. 9, 1821 (post,
p. 247).
*** Ante, p. 223.



228 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
must have evinced to your Excellency the feeling which such a stretch
of second hand military authority was calculated to produce, but
upon your assurance that the Case should be represented in its true
light to the highest authorities joined to your request the Board has
rescinded the resolution & will act until the matter is brought to a
proper issue—
However indecorous the correspondence of Capt" Bell has been in
the eyes of the Council as of every impartial Judge it is proper to
remark that the Board deprecates the idea held out by him that it
was actuated by the little resort of requiring in the Character of a
Board of Health, that the Hospital should be removed from the
Centre of the City, because the Room was forcibly taken from them
the fact is that the Resolution of the latter Board was passed before
the Mayor Communicated Captain Bell's summons to remove.—
It has appeared also very extraordionary to the Council as well as
to every Observer of passing events that the entire occupation by a
handful of Soldiers of the numerous public buildings to the entire
exclusion of the Civil officers is repugnant to our republican insti-
tutions & will meet with the attention required from the proper
authority—
It is painful to state, that nowithstanding the representations made
by the Board thro' your Excellency to Col Eustis that a Few Troops
still occupy the Room & that to this moment the Hospital is not
removed or any disposition shewn to satisfy the just claims of the
Citizens in that respect—
I am with much respect, Sir, Your most Obed Servn.
Signed J. G. FORBES Mayor
TO HIS EXCELLENCY W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Gov. of East Florida
[Endorsed] Letter from The Mayor of St Augustine to Mr Worth-
ngton P.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS 29]
ST AUGUSTINE Oct. 4* 1821
SIR I inclosed a copy of your letter of the 24” Aug" * (which was
rec,d by me on the 2" inst. respecting the fortifications &") to Col"
2° Enclosed in Jackson to the Sec. of State, Jan. 5, 1822 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, X).
27 Not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 229
Eustis,” requesting him to make the report required, to you through
me.—He in a very friendly and polite manner called on me and said,
that he considered himself under the orders of yourself, exercising the
powers of the Captain General of the Havana &° but he thought
that authority could not be delegated to me, by you, as I was invested
by you only with the powers of the Spanish Governor of this Prov-
ince—I told him I would not at this time insist on the Point, but would
hand him your original letter and he might report direct to you if he
thought proper—I accordingly called on him yesterday and gave him
the original letter as I thought the substance, that of having the
immediate information called for by you was most to be attended
to—Yet I am of opinion the most proper cource would have been to
report to you through your representative here the Secretary and
Acting Governor of the Province, and further, you would have his
opinion which altho, in the present instance, not likely to add any
thing to Col" Eustis'—Yet in other Situations it might be useful to
you, in forming your judgment—some future case may occur where
it would be well before hand to know if Col" Eustis or myself be
correct, in your opinion—That is; are the Military stationed here
under the controul, or independent of, the person appointed by you
to exercise the functions of the late Spanish Governor?—
I wish in all things to proceed correctly nor do I think Col" Eustis is
disposed to act otherwise—your decision will be conclusive with me.--
With very great respect &c
W. G. D WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
HIS EXCELLENCY ANDREW JACKSON Governor of East & West
Florida
[Addressed] His Excellency Andrew Jackson Gover of East & West
Florida
|Endorsed] with Genl. Jackson's letter of 5 Jan’ 1822
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO SECRETARY WALTON
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M)
PENSACOLA Oct. [5] 1821.
SIR/ Having fully organized the Government in the Floridas, the
situation of my family, and M** Jackson's great desire to get home
* Lt. Col. Abraham Eustis succeeded Capt. Bell in the military command at St.
Augustine, consisting of a portion of the fourth artillery, on Sept. 30, 1821 (Eustis
to Jackson, Oct. 1, 1821, LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 60). Letters from Eustis to
the Adjutant General, dated Oct. 2, Nov. 3, Nov. 12, Nov. 16, Dec. 3, Dec. 4,
and Dec. 17, 1821, concerning routine military affairs, are in NA (WD, AGO
Lets. Recd.). See also Eustis to the Quartermaster General, Oct. 2, 1821 (NA,
WD, QMG Lets. Recd.).



230 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
before the weather sets in, compel me to leave the Territory for a
short time, and leave you to administer the Government of West
Florida with all its appendages until my return, or until Congress
shall have made regulations for the Government of the same.
I herewith enclose you a Commission * investing you with all the
Civil, judicial and military powers heretofore exercised by the Gover-
nor of W. Florida under the Spanish authority, at the date of the late
Treaty with Spain—referring you also, to the case decided as to
Jurisdiction in the case Vidal's Heirs vs John Innerarity.”
In administering the Govt. of West Florida, you will be governed
by my instructions from the President of the U. States which you
will gather from my Commission as Govt of the Floridas &" &" &",
bearing date the 10* day of March, my third Commission: of date
20* March 1821. and from the instructions given by the Secretary
of State to me under them, all of which you have recorded in the
Book containing the Executive proceedings, and which is in your
possession as Secretary of West Florida, & such other instructions
as you may receive from me on this subject.
Your are well apprized of the cause that gave rise to my
Proclamation * ordering certain Spanish Officers to withdraw them-
selves from the Territories of the Floridas, agreeably to what they
were required under the 7” Article of the Treaty, by which they were
bound to have withdrawn themselves within six months after the
Exchange of the Ratification thereof. This order has been limited to
those who have been guilty of the Contempt—should others who are
not included, behave indecorously, and contemptuously to the existing
authorities, you will forthwith order them from the Floridas. It
must not be permitted, that foreign Officers remain here disturbing
the harmony of society, alienating the quiet citizens of this Country
from their allegiance to the Government, and treating that Govern-
ment with contempt, which now exists in the Floridas. Should those
Officers included in my Proclamation attempt to return without
permission, you will forthwith confine them until they can be sent
away; and should Col Callava return to this place in my absence, you
will order him immediately to withdraw himself, as he was bound to
do under the Treaty, but which he has failed to do—his conduct here
in exciting disquietude amongst the peaceful citizens and Creoles—
the false oath he has taken, and his contemptuous conduct to the
Administrators of the Government, make it necessary and proper
2° Not present.
* See post, p. 259, n.
* Dated Sept. 29, 1821, and published contemporaneously in the Pensacola
Floridian, Oct. 8, 1821. Printed also in Niles’ Reg., Oct. 27, 1821, and in A. S. P.,
Misc., II, 813–814. On this subject see also Jackson's letter to the Secretary of
State, Sept. 30, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii), printed in A. S. P., op. cit.,
p. 813, and in Bassett (ed.), op. cit., III, 121–122.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 231
that if he does return, he should be forthwith ordered to depart, and
should he refuse, that he be imprisoned for the contempt, until he
peaceably agrees to withdraw himself, as he was bound to do under
the 7” Article of the Treaty.
I have the fullest confidence, that you will administer the Govern-
ment with that energy, which the peace, harmony and the protection
of the Citizens and Creoles of the Country require & which is necessary
to secure to the people ceded with the Country, all the rights and privi-
leges secured to them under the late Treaty with Spain. Should it
come to your knowledge that any documents or papers relating to the
private property of the people in the Floridas, are about to be carried
off, you will cause them to be delivered to the Office of the Alcalde for
safe keeping. This being one of the important rights secured to them
under the Treaty, must be carried into effect, regardless of the stand-
ing of the individual who may attempt to deprive them of this security
of the right of property, guaranteed by the Treaty, and which may be
attempted to be violated.
As I have directed the Secretary of East Florida, to transmit here,
all his reports, you will please open, read and forward to me such as
you may deem necessary and important, to such places as my memo-
randum directs, calculating on my speedy return to this place, on
being informed of any emergency that may make my presence neces-
sary, and all Official letters from the Heads of Departments, you will
please open, read, copy, and forward me the Originals, and all private
letters you will forward to Nashville unopened.”—
I am Sir, with great respect Yr Obd Humble Servt.
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON Gov of the Floridas &c. &c &c
GEORGE WALTON Esq." Secretary of W. Florida.
-
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, viii:LS *]
PENSACOLA October 6* 1821.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 20th of August last “ in
answer to my several letters of the 16** 17* * & 18th of July 37
* The measures taken by Jackson for the government of the territory were com-
municated to the President in a letter of Oct. 5, 1821, printed, Bassett (ed.),
op. cit., III, 122–124, from a copy in the New York Historical Society. See post,
p. 298.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 909–911.
* Ante, p. 172.
** Ante, p. 119.
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v); LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M),
announcing formal possession of W. Fla. It is printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV,
764; Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 104–105.
*NA (SD, loc. cit.); LC (Jackson Papers, loc. cit.), a covering note for the Procés
Verbal. Both letter and enclosure are printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 764–765.



232 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
which you are pleased to inform me you have transmitted to the
President of the U. States at Shonnondale Springs.
You request me to communicate to you as early as possible, and as
fully as may be in my power, such information as may serve to en-
lighten the enquiries of Congress on the different subjects which will
require the attention of that body in relation to the Floridas, at their
next session.
After giving this important subject the attention which it merits,
and refering to the various laws which you have been pleased to notice
in your letter, I proceed to lay before you such information as I have
been able to collect and as I conceive to be within the scope of your
enquiries, together with such reflections as suggest themselves to
my mind.
As a subject of the first importance at the present juncture, I must
refer you to my letter to the Secretary of War of the 17th Instant.*
You will find from that communication that the Indians are spread
over the whole of East, and part of West Florida. From the talk I
have had with some of their chiefs who visited me some time ago, and
forwarded with the letter just mentioned, the places at present occu-
pied by them, has been ascertained with tolerable accuracy; that is
as far as the wandering habits of these people will permit them to be
considered as occupying any place. For the greater part, these Indians
consist of those who fled from the Upper Creeks in 1814, and adhering
to our enemies continued at war with us until subdued in 1818, since
which time they have remained in the Floridas. I am clearly of
opinion that they ought to be ordered up to their old places of abode
within the Creek nation, as they can have no rightful claim to lands
or country within the Floridas. As to those who have been born and
raised within the Floridas, it is absolutely necessary that they should
be collected at one point, and secured in their settlements by act of
Congress, in case they cannot be prevailed upon to unite with the
Creek nation, to which they originally belonged; this latter course is
very desirable for their own safety, as well as dictated to us by sound
policy. They might be there completely protected by our Govern-
ment, they may be provided for by an annuity, or by such other
mode, as Congress in its wisdom may devise, adequate to their wants,
and to induce them to embrace an agricultural life. Sould the
Indians prefer continuing within the Floridas it will be expedient for
the safety of our frontier on the seacost, to concentrate them on the
Appalachecola river immediately adjoining the Southern boundary of
Georgia and Alabama, on both sides of the river and downward so as
to include a sufficient area for them. By this means a sufficient white
population may be interposed between them and the seaboard, and
* Meaning ultimo, ante, p. 205.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 233
afford a settlement strong enough to cover and protect St. Augustine
and Pensacola, as well as the Peninsula of Florida.
By referring to the talk already mentioned, you will see that the
difficulty of collecting the native Indians of the Floridas, to the point
on the Appelachecola, will not be great. They are rejoiced to hear
that a country will be allowed them to live in at all, such has been their
apprehensions of their future fate since the transfer of their country
to the United States, excited no doubt by mischievous advisers; and
they will be still more so, to find that they will be fostered and pro-
tected by the American Government. I have been long impressed
with the absurdity of entering into Treaties with the Indian tribes
residing within our territorial limits, subject to our jurisdiction and
to such laws as Congress may pass for their security, happiness, and
safety. I therefore respectfully recommend to the consideration of
the President whether it will not be proper to suggest to Congress the
propriety of laying off a tract of country for them, and fixing a boun-
dary between them and the settlement of the Whites. It is well
known to me from experience and observation that more general
justice can be done the Indians by the legislative provisions of Con-
gress than by treaties: the poor can be better taken care of and more
equal justice done the whole. I have constantly observed that in
Indian treaties the Chiefs are fattened and the common Indian left to
starve. Another and a very important reason for adopting the policy
I have recommended, is the great obstacle which will otherwise exist
to the surveying and bringing the public lands into market, which
I presume is intended to be done as speedily as possible.
The next subject which presents itself is the form of territorial
Government proper to be adopted for the Floridas This must be in
a great measure adopted to the geographical form and the character
of the soils. The principal body of land capable of supporting a con-
siderable population lies nearly east and west, from the Choctahatchy
to the Alatchua and St. Johns, being about thirty miles in width by
about three hundred in length, and partly in East, and partly in West
Florida. The Peninsula has been very little explored, but from the
best information I can obtain I am inclined to think, that excepting
immediately on the margin of the river St. Johns there is no extensive
body of good land in any part of it, although it is possible that some
good soil may be found in small quanties, in particular places. With
these exceptions, the Floridas consist of Pine Woods and swamps. If
the lower part of the Peninsula, were not as I believe it to be, capable
of supporting only a very small population, the geographical shape of
the Floridas would be extremely inconvenient. But as it is there will
only be a disproportion between the length and breadth, but not such
as to render it unfit for our territorial Government. Pensacola is at
one of these extremes and St. Augustine at the other. The center of



234 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
the future population of the Floridas will be some where about the
Suwaney, which is a fine river and flows through a country of good
land. The Okafanoke swamp represented on the maps as near the
heads of this river and of the Wachulla & St. Marks, has no real
existance as was ascertained by me in 1818, when I marched through
the country and found the swamp as represented to be the Mickasukey
pond or Lake, in the midst of a very healthy fertile country, and which
has been settleing very rapidly. It may be well to observe that the
present maps only tend to deceive and mislead. Before Congress
can enter upon the subject of a separation of the Floridas into two
territories, the question of the location of the Indians must first be
settled. If they be concentrated at the point proposed I would
recommend that the Floridas be made but one territory, and I feel
perfectly satisfied with such an arrangement, two or three years would
give a sufficient population to the Floridas to form a State Govern-
ment. Should a separation take place this object will be long deferred
if not entirely defeated, and may produce the necessity of uniting
West Florida to Alabama, which if done will of course occasion the
annexation of East Florida to Georgia. The whole, if no subdivision
takes place, will in a few years constitute one of the most respectable
States in this part of the Union, will exceed Louisiana in population
and rival it in wealth, but if seperated into two territories the popula-
tion of neither will suffice.
As far as I have been able to ascertain the wishes of the people of
West Florida, they appear to be against the annexation to Alabama,
and from what I can learn, the same sentiment prevails in East Florida
with respect to Georgia. The best interests of the Floridas in my
opinion require that they should be united under one territorial Gov-
ernment, with an eye to a speedy admission into the union as a state,
by this means a great saving will be made to the U. States in main-
taining two distinct territorial Governments for an uncertain period
of time. The vicinity of the Suwany river possesses many advantages
for the location of the seat of Government: it is equally central to the
country East of the St. Johns—the Escambia and Florida point; over
and above the advantages of being situated in the center of a beautiful
lime stone country.
I am of opinion, taking into view the mixed population likely to
exist here for some time, that the form of the territorial Government
ought to be simple and energetic. The territorial organization, in
the first grade of Government, adopted for the Louisiana territory,
with some alterations to suit local circumstances, may answer the
purpose. The Spanish population forming but a small proportion,
it is of very little importance to preserve any of their ancient laws
and customs; the sooner they become American the better.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 235
The lands and the land titles of the Floridas require the most serious
attention of Congress. It is a subject of the greatest importance to
the Government and ought to receive the earliest consideration.
Whilst the honest grantee may be protected in his rights, the greatest
pains should be taken to exclude the numerous fraudulent and
antidated claims, founded on no possession, at the time of issuing the
grant or concession, and without any original record or survey in
West Florida that has yet been discovered. Nearly all these grants
commence in 1817, by petition to the Governor for an order of survey
or location, and in every instance the other parts of the title are
completed from 1818 to 1821. For some years past, from all I can
learn this has been a trading business with the Officers of the Spanish
Government both here and at St. Augustine. The stranger was
accosted in the streets and offered a grant for a Doubloon or some trifle.
The petition only has the appearance of being original, but in most
instances in all probability antedated, the other documents attached
to it, are only certified copies from the archives in the keeping of
Pintado the Surveyor General at Havanna, and who is even now
making out official certificates of those papers to be evidence here,
a kind of impudence and imposture at which congress will no doubt
be indignant. Before the year 1817 there was scarcely any such
thing as a grant of land excepting in the immediate vicinity of this
place, and I presume that in East Florida, the number was also very
inconsiderable. They were made I believe, merely with a view to
the change of governments, and with no intention of settling. A
provision similar to that contained in the 14* Secº of the act of the
20* December 1803, * declaring all incomplete grants not commenced
before 1816, and not accompanied by settlement as null and void,
would at once put an end to the whole of the fraudulent grants. As
to the enormous grants in different parts of the Floridas it is not
necessary for me to speak, but I am pretty certain that if all are
sanctioned it will take a country twice as large as the Floridas to
gratify them. The extract of a letter from Mº Brown a gentleman of
respectability from Baltimore herewith enclosed, * will shew that a
grant has been made since the 24* January 1818, by the Captain
General of Cuba to Arredondo for a large tract in the Alachua plains,
and which I have evry reason to believe is fraudulent. I would
therefore recommend that Congress should declare void all grants for
land, not founded on actual possession before the 22” February 1816,
** Jackson was in error. There was no Congressional act of any description
enacted on the date mentioned. Undoubtedly the allusion was to an act approved
Mar. 26, 1804 (Terr. Papers, Orleans, Ix, 202–213; 2 STAT. 283–289), the four-
teenth article of which provided for a time limit for the reception of claims based
on Spanish titles.
* Not present.



236 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
and in like manner declaring void all grants not bottomed on a con-
cession regularly made agreeably to the Spanish law, and possession
taken and continued, and improvements made thereon in strict con-
formity to the Spanish regulations making such exceptions as will
secure his settlement &c, to the individual who shall have had five
years continued possession, prior to the 24* day of January 1818. In
referring to the numerous acts of Congress for the adjustment of the
land titles in the different territories, I find very little that is appli-
cable at present to the Floridas, excepting the act of the 21* April
1806,” the first section of which defines that no grant shall be valid,
unless founded on possession, commencing with and continued under
the concession by the proper officer of Spain. The greatest difficulty
appears to be in the establishment of a board of Commissioners. A
great variety of plans have been fallen upon. The first consisting of
three Commissioners, Secretary, Register, recorder, was found too
expensive and dilatory, the last adopted for the Country East of the
Mississippi was too simple and too cheap; two districts were formed
and a single Commissioner appointed to each with a Clerk who was
expected to discharge all the functions of recorder and translator.”
This may have answered a very good purpose in Mississippi and Ala-
bama, but much more difficult and important legal questions will
arise here; and I do not hesitate to say that the Commissioners for
the settlement of the land titles ought to be men of the first legal
talents, of strict integrity, and I would add as an essential requisite,
possessing no landed interest in the Floridas. Persons will be recom-
mended from this place who ought not to be appointed. There are
but few titles which are clear of dispute, and when a man has bought a
title under disputed circumstances, it is very natural that self interest,
and the interest of his friends, will have great weight in his mind, and
precedents will be established to ensure their validity. I do not go
too far when I say that no person should be appointed who has bought
a land claim in the Floridas. It cannot be too strongly impressed on
the mind of the President, that men of talents and strict integrity,
who have no interest in landed property in the Floridas, should be
selected as commissioners to settle the land titles.
It is of great importance that the Judiciary should be filled by men
of first rate legal talents and unimpeached integrity, as much will
depend upon those who are employed to lay the foundation of any
system. Respectability will be given to the government by appointing
men possessing weight of character, they ought to be well acquainted
with the civil law, and the maritime law, as well as the common law.
41 2 STAT. 391—395.
* Referring to the experience of Mississippi Territory. See Terr. Papers
(Miss.), v, 197–200, 222–223, 228, 239, 389, 662.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 237
The same court might have chancery powers given to it, on the plan
of the circuit courts of the U. States, and I think ought to be required
to hold its terms more frequently, than has been usual, or to hold
adjourned courts from time to time as business may require. I con-
sider the Judiciary as by far the most important branch of the terri-
torial Government; persons should be selected whose unexceptionable
character will be a pledge that they will stear clear of the influence of
corruption of any kind or partiality. To the high character of the
distributers of justice from the bench, will be attached that confidence,
indespensable in all well regulated governments. It is the purity of
this branch of the administration, which secures to the citizen, the
peaceful enjoyment of his constitutional rights and privileges, and
awards a speedy punishment to those who violate the law and trample
upon the rights of others.
I forward you printed copies of the ordinances * as they may
perhaps contain something, deserving of being permanently incor-
porated in the act of Congress organizing the territorial government.*
With high consideration & respect I have the honor to be, Sir,
Yr Mo Obt Serv'.
ANDREW JACKSON Govr of the Floridas &c. &c
THE HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State Washington City
P. S. I am just on the eve of departure for my residence in Ten-
nessee and will necessarily be absent from this territory for some
time; but will make such arrangements as will enable me to return
on the shortest notice, in case any thing should occur to render my
presence necessary. W. G. D. Worthington Esq. and Col: George
Walton are respectively charged with the powers formerly exercised
by the Governors of East and West Florida.” I enclose a copy of an
address (in a newspaper) to the inhabitants of the Floridas" which
I thought proper to publish previous to my leaving the country.”
ANDREW JACKSON
[Endorsed] Recd 31 October. Andrew Jackson—
* Not present.
* Reply, if any, not found.
** See Jackson to the President, Oct. 5, 1821 (LC, Jackson Lets. and Orders,
Bk. M.; printed, Bassett, ed., Corr. Jackson, III, 122–124), explaining in detail
how the government was to operate in his absence.
** Not present.
* See post, p. 265.



238 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO GEORGE M. BROOKE
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. Ll
PENSACOLA, October 6th 1821 *
SIR, Being about to leave this place for a short period to accompany
my family some distance on their way home, and having left, Co'
Walton, Secy of West Florida, charged with the administration of the
Government of West Florida and its dependencies during my absence;
I have to request that you will furnish to his requisitions such detach-
ments of Troops as he may deem necessary for carrying into effect
the administration of the Government. I have left Co" Walton
clothed with the Judicial, civil, and military powers, exercised by the
Govt of West Florida under the Government of Spain at the date of
the late Treaty, And in my absence you will please to veiw him in
that capacity administering the Govt of W Florida, and afford him
all necessary aid as Commander of the Troops in this Department.
I am Sir, with great respect Yº M.” Obt Servant
(Signed, ANDREW JACKSON
Co! GEORGE M BROOKE 4* Regº U.S. Infº Present.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
GOVERNOR JACKSON 49
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE October 6* 1821
SIR Your letter of the 9” of August * by Mº Bird reached me on
the 29* of the same month—But as my letters of the 21** and 28**
of August would shew you that I had fortunately anticipated your
views, I did not think it necessary to trouble you with a repetition of
what I had already written—
I have now the honor to acknowledge your interesting favour of the
1* ult.* which came to hand on the 2" inst.—As far as we have pro-
gressed in the subject of the Archives I enclose you copies of letters
and papers relative to it marked N° 1. 2. 3. 4.5 & 6 & 7.*—You will
48 On the evening of this day at a ball given him by the military officers and
citizens, Jackson made an address in which he reviewed some of the occurrences
of his administration and announced arrangements for the government during
his absence; the text of the address appears in Pensacola Floridian, Oct. 8, 1821,
and in Niles’ Reg., XXI, 171–173.
* Enclosed in covering letter from Jackson to the Secretary of State, Jan. 5,
1822, NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x).
50 Ante, p. 167.
51 Not found.
* Ante, p. 193.
& Addressed to Bell; an enclosure in Jackson to the Secretary of State, Jan. 22,
1822 (NA, SD, loc. cit.), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 796–797, and Pensacola
Floridian.
* Present, and printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 890–894.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 239
see that the subject early drew my attention—And before the
Floridian of the 25th August arrived here, which was not 'till the
25th of September, I had determined to wait no longer for instructions
from Washington and Havana on this affair, but take possession of
them peacably if practicable, but forcibly if necessary—A short time
after this determination which I had communicated to the Marshall,
Col" Forbes, he brought in the paper containg the proceedings in the
arrest of Col" Callava–I then saw you would justify me—but no
formal complaints had been made me—And I knew that the subject
had been laid before you and I expected by every mail to receive
orders on it—I also kept a look out that if there had been a disposition
to send the Archives secretly away, it would not have succeeded—I
also lulled them, even after seeing what had been done at Pensacola
not only into security, but expected to take them, unawares and in
the execution of faithless and fictitious proceedings
On the first inst. I intended to make the seizure. if original papers
as I expected, were refused being brought into the Court of the
County of S* Johns but on the motion being made, the originals were
brought in—I determined then without any formal complaint to make
the seizure on the 2° and engaged Col" Forbes at 11 to wait on Col”
Eustis with me—At 10 on that morning yours of the first ulto.” order-
ing the seizure arrived—I consulted with Col" Eustis, and gave the
Commission to the persons appointed—who executed the order as
you will see by their report—I then issued the enclosed order to the
three secretaries and they are now employed in investigating the
papers—which when completed I will have the pleasure of further
Reporting to you—
I trust you know I should not so egregiously have mistaken your
Proclamation, yet its having been mistaken, put me in the disagree-
able predicament of correcting it by annihilating the Spanish Govern-
ment here—which the Spaniards looked for as a matter of cource
when you were placed at the head of the Floridian Administration and
they would not have grumbled at it then—but being continued
unexpectedly in power, and then forced to commit suicide by me,
rendered me no favourite with them—But I was certain the cource I
pursued was what you intended—and recollecting what the President
said to me at Washington respecting the Spaniards I was certain it
would be approved of there—
Your remarks respecting the Spanish Constitution and powers of
the District Judge &* I have noted and shall ponder over with much
deliberation—I dont know that any thing will occur to call your
ideas into operation, if it should I shall with great pleasure recur to
your opinion—
“An enclosure in Jackson to the Secretary of State, Sept. 1, 1821, NA (SD
Fla. Terr. Papers, VII). -



240 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
Col" Coppinger the Spanish Ex Governor I have always since my
arrival here considered as a private individual—under the 7” Article
of the Treaty—I wrote him so—we have had a little sparring—He
wished me to arrest and confine a Spaniard in the Fort—I declined
it in a pointed maner—And I informed his friend, if there was such a
thing as a Spy in time of Peace—it was the only offence that I knew of,
for which I would order any one of his Catholic Majesty's subjects
into such a place—
On the subject of Captain Willis I have already written you—If I
can do any thing for him, you may command me—Judge Duval has
not yet arrived, if he can get here in time I will aid him for the Clerk-
ship of his Court—
I enclose you poor Penier's Obituary *—Seldom has any thing
struck upon my heart so painfully as this event—He was at my house
on tuesday night, gay, interesting and delightful. Alas on thursday
night he breathed his last—
This vile Black vomit plays sad work amongst us—My Chief
Judge"—Our Indian Agent—and about half a dozen others of my
friends already sleep in a watery grave about two feet and a half below
the Surface of this Peninsula—
I have lost but one person out of my own family as yet—I enclose
a copy of my Proclamation on this subject “–I promulged it with
the powers you say I possess in yours of the 1” ulto. and as you did
me the honor to say I possess them, I determined not to diminish
myself as your officer—So to prevent exaggeration—as bad accounts
might depreciate the United States purchace of the Floridas—yet I
thought it best not to conceal the truth—I have a parcel of loose
papers left by Mr. Peniers * If the Government at Washington
should not appoint an Indian Agent, I presume as the Governor of
* Not present.
*7 Thomas Fitch. See ante, p. 132, n.
* Not present and not found.
* Extracts of several letters by Pénières are printed in H. Doc. 51, 17 Cong., 2
sess., and in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 411–412. A brief letter, Apr. 30, 1821,
mentions his plan to visit the Indians on the St. John's river (NA, OIA, SW Lets.
Recd.), and the report on this trip, July 19, 1821, is in NA (WD, SW Lets. Recd.,
B 262, as an enclosure in a letter from Bell to the Secretary of War, Jan. 14, 1822).
Another copy is with a letter from Jackson, Sept. 2, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets.
Recd., J24). This report is published in the St. Augustine Fla. Gazette, Aug. 4,
1821, and in the Pensacola Floridian, Oct. 8, 1821. Pénières himself appears to
have submitted a copy of the report on Sept. 1, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Reca.,
P 65, register entry), but it and a letter of Aug. 14 relative to timber on the public
lands are missing. The Secretary of War directed him on Sept. 28 to report to
Bell for instructions (NA, WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11). A letter from
Jackson to Pénières, Nov. 21, 1821 (LC, Jackson Lets. and Orders, Bk.
M), acknowledges the latter's first and second memoirs, indicating there was
another report of which no trace has been found.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 241
East Florida, I am ex officio the Indian Agent, I had before the death
of Mº Peniers written to the Secretary at War in favour of Captain
Bell ºo-
The County Court of St Johns and your whole system goes on very
well—The unpleasant missunderstanding about the Public Buildings
and property here, which we thought might cease on the arrival of
Col" Eustis, still continues—My letter of 28° August is full on that
subject & I wait to know, if, with the exception of the Fort, all the
other property should not be under the controul and disposition of
the Civil Authority—some disagreeable correspondence has taken
place on this subject which I shall have the pleasure of enclosing you
in my next—
Altho I have the mark of such high confidence as to be at the head
of this Provincial Government—yet I have no contingent funds to
enable me to make any, the most necessary disbursements for the
Public service—I am obliged to have a private secretary and a public
Office, also should have a House at the charge of the Government to
live in, & have to incur other incidental expenses as the military
before I reached this, had appropriated all the Public Buildings to
their own use and occupation—
If some facilities of these kinds are not allowed me, I shall have
sacrifised not only my health and time to this important and interest-
ing duty, but shall beggar my wife and Children, by spending my
little private property—This is a painful subject and I feel confident
I need only appeal to your Liberality and Justice to insure me a
speedy and competent renumeration—
I am sorry to hear your health is bad—I have no great opinion of
this climate compared with Tennessee or Maryland—Every thing
the Spaniards ever had, has been Shamefully exagerated—But I
trust, you will recruit and force this section of the Union into repute
and consequence—If I had money I could do something, but as
things are my great policy is to do no more than I can possibly avoid
With very great respect &c
W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida—
HIS EXCELLENCY ANDREW JACKSON Governor of the Floridas
[Addlessed] His Excellency Andrew Jackson Governor of the
Floridas Pensacola
[Endorsed] with Genl. Jackson's letter of 5 Jan’ 1822
* See also post, p. 249.
301867–57—17



242 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
THE PRESIDENT TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
[LC:Monroe Papers:ALS)
OAK HILL Oct 7. 1821.
DEAR SIR I hope that you have long since fully recovered your
health, of which, your last letter gave very satisfactory proof, as it
appeard that you were then not only able to take daily exercise, but
actually took it, by a ride to Bladensburg. M' Gouverneur" who left
us yesterday with our daughter for New York, will inform you, of our
state, which is favorable.
The discussions in Florida, will require some direction, or at least
notice, from the Executive, & on the questions, of law, growing out
of the conduct of the parties, an opinion from you.” Presuming this
to be the case, it will be useful for you to have the whole subject
before you, that you may, when called on, be ready to act. The en-
closed papers contain, I believe, all that has passed between them.”
Return them to me, after giving them a thorough examination.
According to my recollection, of our construction of the law, when we
had it under consideration, and took the measures which placed the
parties in their present stations, as to use a military phrase, on the
present battle-ground, it was considerd, that the Spanish laws, civil,
judicial, & military, heretofore exercised by the officers of Spain,
should remain in force, & be exercised, by the Governor & those acting
under him in regard to the internal governm" of the provinces in such
manner, as the Executive should direct, untill a temporary gov",
should be regularly organized over those territories: that the laws
relating to revenue & the slave trade, were those only, of the U States,
which even for the present, extended to those territories, and for the
execution of which, a district judge, was appointed, at Pensacola, &
another at S*Augustine. If this view is correct, it follows, that the
district judges have nothing to do, with the internal gov" of the pro-
vinces, or with any concern, other than, simply, the revenue & slave
trade. Under the laws of Spain, I believe, there is no such writ, as
that of H. Corpus, so that, if the power of a D. Judge, was not limited,
as above stated, M* Fromentin would have had no right to grant it.
The inquisition & military despotism, are completely at variance, with
the principles, on which that writ is founded. On no view therefore
that I have yet taken of the subject, had he any right, to interfere.
That the Gov" may have displayed some degree of zeal & warmth,
& have executed the Spanish powers, too much in the Spanish way,
makeing no nice distinction, according to the principles of our system,
between the appropriate duties of the several departments of the gov",
* Samuel L. Gouverneur, the President's secretary and son-in-law.
* A reference to Jackson's controversy with Gov. Callava and Judge Fromentin,
concerning which see post, p. 274.
* Not present.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 243
Executive, Judiciary, &cc, considering them all blended in himself,
& taken that character, which best suited the occasion, of Judge, for
example, to call Col: Calava before him, & make him disgorge the
papers, which he unjustly withheld, & of combining all together, in
overruling the H. corpus, & summoning the D. J.” before him, is in
accord in point of energy, with what we have known of him in other
occurrences. But it is for us to enquire, whether the law justifies,
what he did, & whether the power thus exercised, was exerted, in a
good cause, & produced good
If there was no right, in the judge to issue the writ, the expression
of that sentiment by the Executive, settles that question, which is all
that is depending, between the Gov" and the judge.
Whether it will be proper to with hold the nomination of Mr Fr: *
is another question. This new bar, is divided on that point. They
constitute themselves [by the bye]” a bar, before there is any court, and
remonstrate, against the appointment of a judge, who alone, could
form a court. Still they are men of character, whose [MS. illegible)
ought to be weighed. This will, all, be considerd in due time.
with very sincere regard I am dear sir yours.
JAMES MONROE
For the gov" of other territories, three judges, have, I think, gener-
ally been appointed. In this, it was thought proper to appoint none,
according to my recollection, for that purpose, leaving the internal
organization to the Gov' & appoint a district judge, only, at each
place. I mention this as a reason, which probably inducd the gov", to
exercise judicial powers, not thinking himself at liberty to incur the
expence of a judge, or several of his own appointment for a service so
temporary.”
[Endorsed] Oak Hill 7 Octr 1821. The President. Affairs in
Florida—
=
ABRAHAM EUSTIS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., E 48:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE, 8* Oct 1821
SIR-I have the honor to enclose herewith a letter addressed to me
by Mess” Dexter & Wanton. In reply I have informed those Gentle-
men “that I had no instructions in relation to Indian affairs, that I
would without delay submit their communication to your considera-
tion & urge a reply, that they might assure the Indians of full protec-
* District Judge.
* Eligius Fromentin.
* Brackets on the original.
* Answered post, p. 250.



244 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
tion, & ample justice from the American Government, & that until
some person was duly authorised I would not hesitate, in any emer-
gency, requiring immediate decision, to act as far as may be necessary
in the affairs of the Indians.”—Capt. Bell is desirous of obtaining an
appointment as Agent for Indian affairs in this province. I have long
been acquainted with his merits as an officer, & know no one, who more
eminently deserves the favour of the Government, & I believe him to
possess special qualifications for this particular duty.—The death of
Mº Penieres, Sub-Agent, has doubtless been communicated to you.
Previous to my arrival here, some issues of Rations—Tobacco,
Powder & Lead have been made to the Indians under the authority
of Capt. Bell. I presume therefore they may expect a continuance of
them. No application has yet been made to me for such supplies. If
any should be made, I shall grant them with the most rigid Oeconomy,
until I am informed, whether or not they are authorised by the Gov-
ernment.
I am with high respect your very humble serv"
ABR" EUSTIS
HON. J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War—
[Endorsed] Oct” 8–1821 Abm. Eustis Enclosing letter of Tho"
Dexter & Edwº M. Wanton Estimate Adjº Gen”
[Enclosure]
Horatio S. Dexter and Edward M. Wanton to Abraham Eustis
Copy St AUGUSTINE, October 5* 1821.
Col EUSTIS, Comm" at S*Augustine,
SIR, Since our arrival in town, we have not ascertained in whom is
wested the charge of Indian affairs for the United States but under the
impression that this is a subject embraced within your duties we take
the liberty of addressing ourselves directly to you. The late treaty
between Spain and the United States found the Seminole Indians
disposed to forget former causes of enmity to the United States a
change of feeling which we had greatly contributed to produce. This
favourable disposition we laboured to improve so successfully that
nothing is now more desired by them than an understanding with the
United States. To the greatest distrust has succeeded no small
confidence in the justice and generosity of the United States. Capt.
Bell with whom we have constantly communicated, * has probably
* The Dexter-Wanton-Bell correspondence is in NA (HF, 21 Cong., 1 sess.),
accompanying a memorial of Nov. 18, 1829 from Dexter praying for compensation
for services rendered by him to the Indian Department in Florida. This cor-
respondence also includes letters from Eustis, the Sec. of War, Gov. DuVal,
James Gadsden, J. M. Hernandez, Peter Pelham, and Bernardo Segui from July
1821 to June 1825, most of which are not found elsewhere. The memorial
mentioned was presented by Del. White on Dec. 15, 1829 (House Journal, 21



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 245
informed you of the means taken to tranquilize their fears and their
wishes to enter as speedily as possible into an arrangement finally
settling their future relations with the United States, And our principal
object is to state that the Chiefs have vested in us the power to make
for them a Treaty, this duty we will discharge alone or in concert. If
you are prepared to take advantage of a disposition now eminently
favourable to this object we are ready to enter immediately on the
business, if not we respectfully suggest that the appointment of an
agent without delay is of the utmost consequence and if it be con-
sistent with the views of the President we would recommend Capt.
Bell who has acquired the confidence of the indians an object of no
small consideration in treating with a race of men so diffident of their
own skill in diplomacy and so little used to civilized modes of con-
ducting national affairs.-In forming a decision on this subject it
ought not to be forgotten that the present is the moment and this the
mode of securing to the United States upon principles just both to
themselves and others of very important interests having but little
apparent connexion with the Indians.
We are with the highest consideration your obedº Serv"
Signed HORATIO DEXTER
EDW4 M WANTON
TEST. ABRºn EUSTIS
JOHN R. BELL TO GOVERNOR JACKSON 69
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., J 87:LS)
S* AUGUSTINE Octo 8th 1821.
DEAR GENERAL, It has been my misfortune to incur the displeasure
of Mr Worthington Secretary of this Province; Mr Forbes Marshall of
this Province and Mayor of this city, and Mº Rodman Collector of
the Port and District of Sº Augustine Councellor and Attorney at law.—
The amount of my offence, (I have every reason to believe) is that I
did not allow either of those gentlemen to take possession of the
public property or edifices on their arrival here or since—M Worth-
ington politely required the Government House, which was occupied
by military officers there being no other public quarters for them—
Mº Forbes took a stand in behalf of the City Corporation, authorised
the erection of buildings on the public grounds which I forbid, and
the holding possession of the “National School” which I allowed them
to occupy for a time—M Rodman required the house adjoining the
Custom House which had been occupied by the late Treasurer under
Cong., 1 sess., p. 41); it was reported on by the Committee on Indian Affairs on
Jan. 19, 1830, when the House resolved that the petitioner have leave to withdraw
his petition and documents (ibid., p. 183).
* Enclosed in Jackson to the Secretary of War, Dec. 12, 1821 (post, p. 302).



246 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
the Spanish Government—and was on his arrival occupied by myself
and which I held, until the arrival of Col Eustis, for his family—
After the arrival of Col. Eustis and before he assumed the command,
the repeated representations of the Army Surgeon against our occupy-
ing the fort and the increased numbers on the Sick report induced
me to remove the Troops in town, one company to occupy the “School
House” which was then. (by my permission) occupied by the City
Council, the other company to occupy the “Flour Store”—I did not
take possession of the School House, until I had first made formal
application to Forbes the Mayor, who submitted the letter to his
Concil, who addressed a letter to M' Worthington threatning to
resign their commissions if the building was to be occupied by the
Troops at the same time passed a resolution ordering our hospital to
be removed out of town; which letter and resolution M* Worthington
enclosed to Col. Eustis, with not only a compliance with the council
in their views, but a threat of reporting the circumstances to the
President of the United States—Col Eustis not being in command
delivered the letters to me, to which I replied, in a manner calculated
to convince the gentlemen that I was not to be intimidated by threats;
after which, I ordered the Troops to occupy the School house and
turn the Council furniture out of door—The consequence has been an
arrest at the suit of a Mº Fairbanks who I confined on the twenty first
of July, for four days, as a principal in a Second degree, in an attempt
to carry off by force on the night of the 20° July a negro woman and
her two children then in the possession of the law—Rodman is attorney
and damages laid at 450 dollars—This appears to be the only hold
they can get of me, I shall plead the want of jurisdiction in the Court
under the impression that I am accountable to you and the Gov" of
the United States and not to the Hon” Court of the County of Sº
Johns, for an act committed while acting, under the Same authority
from which the Court Since derived its being—Rodman has not
forgoten the tea which was thrown in his face and consequently
dislikes all persons wearing the cloth of a Soldier.”
70 The President's views on this subject were communicated to the Secretary
of War, Oct. 11, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., P84) as follows:
“I have made a note as to the public buildings at St Augustine, which you will
execute in the best manner you can. Perhaps it may not be necessary, to have
any formal communication with either Mr Adams or Mr Crawford on the subject.
The military ought to yield every accomodation in their power, to the civil officiers,
and I should suppose, with suitable exertions, that they might put their barracks
in a state to keep them warm, by chimneys, in the winter, and admit as much
air by windows as would prevent contagion. The want of cleanliness among the
Spaniards, was the cause of disease with them. That will not exist with us.
Any necessary expenditure, on a small scale, might be paid out of some contingent
or other fund, as I presume, that none should be incurrd in any line to be avoided,
for there will I fear be a considerable deficiency in the revenue.”



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 247
I take the liberty to enclose a charge made out against the United
States for extra Services &° during the time I was doing the duty of
Provisional Secretary of East Florida—under the impression that
Something should be allowed me to cover the necessary expences to
which I was Subject—If the charge is such as meets your approbation
I hope by your assistance, it will be allowed and paid—It can hardly
be expected by the Government of the United States, that a Secretarys
living and contingent expences can be paid gratis out of a captains
allowance.”—
Most respectfully, I am, Sir Your most obedº Servº
JN° R. BELL Cap' 4* Arty
P. S. M. Worthingtons proclamation is premature, for I do assure
you, that but two Soldiers have died in hospital Since we have
occupied this Station.
MAJOR GEN" ANDREW JACKSON Governor of the Floridas Pensacola
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:LS)
ST AUGUSTINE Octº 9th 1821
SIR I enclose you an account of my proceedings in the case of the
Archives and Documents * which I have seized here—The Seperation
of the papers is not yet completed—I must confess I regarded the
Spanish Officers remaining here more as a matter of Speculative in-
trigue and espionage, than anything else—Since this last blow the Ex-
Governor, whom I look upon as no better than the general run of
Spanish Provincial Governors has taken his departure and I suppose
many discontented Spaniards will follow his example—He and myself
had a little dispute about a man of the name of Ugarte,” the particu-
lars of which I will send on, lest the affair should be misrepresented,
for I am conscious of being correct in the procedure. I enclose you
certain papers respecting a disagreeable dispute between the Civil
and Military, here respecting the public property”—I think all the
7. See post, p. 303.
7. Papers communicated to the Secretary of State by Worthington on this
subject were transmitted by the President to Congress on Jan. 28 and Apr. 18,
1822; they are printed in House Exec. Doc. 42, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 309–825,
and reprinted in A. S. P., Misc., II, 890–896; others were transmitted with a
message of Apr. 18, 1822, and are printed in S. Doc. 86 and in H. Doc. 113, 17
Cong., 1 sess., and reprinted in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 792–800. The archives
commissioners submitted a report on Dec. 8, 1821, stating the time spent in
examining the archives and requesting compensation (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers,
IX).
* José Ugarte, see post, p. 302, n.
* Present; for list, see enclosure.



248 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
public property, with the exception of the Fort should be placed under
the controul and disposal of the Civil Power— I am determined not
to disgrace our country by quarrelling with our own Citizens, whether
Civil or Military—And we confidently look up to you, for redress,
from a system thought by some in this particular, as exclusively
vexatious, as if it emenated from a Corps of Janissaries—I have not
heard from General Jackson on this subject as yet—It takes about
30 days hence to Pensacola and 30 back again, so tedious is the mail
route.--
I found myself bound in honour and humanity to issue a Proclama-
tion respecting the health of this place—Our fine, hardy, healthy
Northerners, have been swept off most woefully by the Black vomit—
Now, whoever comes hereafter to this place, will act knowingly and
provide against the worst—If I had not had said something official,
I am certain the sickness would have been exaggerated, which would
have injured the value of the purchace of the Floridas—Now, the
present sickness will be attributed to unusual and extraordinary causes,
which may not exist again—I adopted my title from those words in a
letter of General Jackson of the 1* Sept’ ”—he says “There is no
doubt that the person exercising the powers of the Governor of East
Florida can exercise all the powers, exercised under the King of Spain
at the time the Country was ceded”—However I exercise as little of
the character of a Spanish Governor as I can possibly avoid—Indeed
I act no further than I deem absolutely necessary, in the present state
of things— there is such a heterogenious mass here, that it would be a
folly to expect steering clear of contests with all—I have had no colli-
sion as yet with any but the Spaniards and Military—the former is
at an end since the taking of the Archives—The latter will be put to
rest by marking out our proper limits.-
With distinguished consideration &"
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] The Honble John Quincy Adams, Secretary of State
Washington
[Endorsed] Rec" 6 Nov. W. G. D. Worthington—
[Enclosure]
List of Papers Transmitted
List of papers relating to the dispute between the Civil and Military
Authorities at St. Augustine respecting the public property—For-
warded to the department of State—Oct 9” 1821
7" Enclosure in Jackson to the Secretary of State, Sept. 1, 1821, NA (SD, Fla.
Terr. Papers, vii).



FL, OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 249
A.—M Worthington letter to Mr Adams—Augt. 28* 1821 7°
B.—M Worthington letter to Gen. Jackson—Augt. 28* 1821 "
C.—M Worthington to the Mayor of St Augustine—Augt 27, 1821 *
D.—M Worthington to Mr Calhoun-Augt. 21. 1821 *
E.—The Mayors Answer to M' Worthington *
F.—Report of the Committee *
G.—Resolution of the City Council of St Augustine *
H.—Resolution of the Board of health of St Augustine *
I.—M Worthington to Col" Eustis “
K.—Mr Worthington to Col" Eustis "
L.—Col" Eustis Reply *
M.–Capt" Bells Reply *
N.—Mr Worthington to Capt Bell “
O.-M' Worthington to the Mayor *
The Mayor to Mr Worthington *
Mr Worthington to M' Adams of the 9th Oct. 1821
[Endorsed] List of Papers relating to public Property with Secretary
Worthington's Letter of 9th October 1821.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON TO THE SECRETARY
OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 78:LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE Octr 9th 1821
SIR Mº Penires the late Indian Agent is no more—His papers are
in my possession—I fear nothing valuable can be made out of them,
they are so detached—I wrote some time ago about Captain Bell and
altho the military and myself here have differed respecting the Public
Property, I will not retract what I have said in his favour, should
Congress see fit to create an Indian Agency in Florida
I have laid the dispute about the Public Property before the
Secretary of State *—
* Present; printed ante, p. 192, from the original.
7 Present; printed ante, p. 193, from the duplicate.
* Present; printed ante, p. 190, from a copy.
” Two letters of this date present; both printed ante, pp. 181, 182.
* Aug, 28, 1821; present but not here printed. See ante, p. 192, n.
* Missing, but printed ante, p. 200, from another source.
* Present; printed ante, p. 218.
* Present; printed ante, p. 219.
* Present; printed ante, p. 214.
* Present; printed ante, p. 217.
* Present; printed ante, p. 218.
* Present; printed ante, p. 215.
* Present; printed ante, p. 222.
* Present; printed ante, p. 223.
* Present; printed ante, p. 227.
* Supra.



250 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
I suppose the Governor of this Province is ex officio Indian Agent—
I shall so consider myself 'till otherwise advised—At present the
Indians are all tranquil and releived from the alarm and apprehensions
which they had on the change of the Province.—
I shall with great pleasure attend to any commands with which
you may think proper at any time to honor me.
With great consideration &"
W G D WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida—
HoNº" John C. CALHOUN Secretary at War Washington City
[Endorsed] Worthington. W. G. D. Secº & Acts Govt East Florida
Sº Augustine, 9 Oct 1821 Informs of death of Mº Pénierés—Has laid
dispute about public property before the Secº of State. Indians at
present tranquil—
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:ALS)
WASHINGTON. October 11. 1821.
MY DEAR SIR. I have read with great attention the papers you
sent me on Sunday,” touching the controversy between Gov" Jackson
& Judge Fromentin, and according to your instruction, now return
them. You will find with them a number of The Enquirer, in which
there is a report of the case extracted from The Floridian as tried
before the Governor, on a plea to his jurisdiction. I do not think
that in this report the case is placed on it's true ground. The objection
of the new constitution of the Cortes is repelled, by the decision, on
the ground that after the original signing of the treaty, or at least
after it's ratification by the King of Spain, the provinces are to be
considered as territories of the U. S. which could not be affected by
any political revolution ef in Spain, or any extension of the principles
of that revolution to her colonies. Admit this to be true, and that
Spain could not, after those periods; legislate for the Floridas, the
Congress of the U. S. could: and congress did legislate for them by
the act of the 3" March 1821, * “to carry into effect the treaty between
the U. S. and Spain,” by the 2" section of which it is enacted “that
until &" &" all the military, civil and judicial powers exercised by
the officers of the existing government of the same territories, shall
be vested in such person and persons and shall be exercised in such
manner as the President of the U. S. shall direct, for the maintaining
the inhabitants of sº territories in the free enjoyment of their liberty,
property and religion; and the laws of the U. S. relating to the revenue
** Ante, p. 242.
* Ante, p. 5.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 251
and it's collection (subject to the modification of the 15* article of the
treaty) and the laws relating to the importation of persons of colour,
shall be extended to the said territories.” The government then
which congress adopted for the Floridas, is the spanish form of
government as it existed in actual operation on the 3 March 1821.
The policy of the provision was, manifestly, to render the disrupture of
those provinces, from the Spanish authority, as little violent, painful
and inconvenient to the inhabitants as possible, by causing the
government, as it stood, to slide, as it were, off the shoulders of the
Spanish officers on those of our officers. So that the reason as well as
the letter of the act of Congress point to that form of Spanish govern-
ment which was in actual operation on the 3 march 1821, as the
government intended to be adopted and continued. If then Judge
Fromentin is correct in the assertion that the people of Florida had
sworne to the constitution of the Cortes 16 months before he wrote,
still unless the new constitution was that which the Spanish officers
were actually administering at the date of our act, it is not the govern-
ment adopted by congress. Now we learn from the statement of
facts detailed in the opinion of the court in this report that it is
questionable whether the constitution of the Cortes had even been
proclaimed in the Floridas at the date of our act. I understand it as
unquestionable that this new constitution of government had not been
actually organized at this date. The powers then, as distributed by it,
were not those powers military, civil and judicial “exercised by the
officers of the existing government” were het the pewers which
congress directed to be transferred to officers appointed under the
authority of the President: and hence the constitution of the Cortes
had nothing to do with the question of Governor Jackson's judicial
powers. These were to be decided solely by the character and extent
of the powers actually exercised by the Spanish Governor of Florida
on the 3 March 1821. I understand it to be conceded, that the
Spanish Governor did, at that time, possess and exercise the judicial
powers claimed and exercised by Governor Jackson in the case of
Vidal; and hence I think it very clear that Governor Jackson, whose
commission put him precisely in the shoes of the Spanish Governor,
rightfully claimed and exercised those powers.
With regard to Judge Fromentin his appointment and commission
would have been unnecessary and improper if congress had stopped at
the adoption of the Spanish system: because such a judge would have
been an anomaly in that system and could have found no functions
apposite to his commission. But congress having added to the Span-
ish System, our revenue and Slave laws, the appointment of a judge
became indispensible for the performance of the judicial functions
expressly designated and required by those laws. The purpose of his



252 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
appointment marks out the extent of his powers; they are limited to
the enforcement of the revenue & slave laws; and he cannot go beyond
these limits without invading the province of those who, under the
authority of congress, were administering the Spanish system which asto
Judge Fromentin was a foreign system and as to him as completely
extra: territorial as the system then administered in Cuba or old Spain.
Judge Fromentin defends his authority to issue a writ of habias
corpus, in this case, under the 14" section of the Judiciary act of
1789.” This section enacts “that all the before mentioned courts of
the U. S. shall have power to issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus,
and all other writs not specially provided for by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and
agreable to the principles and usages of law.” So far, the section has
been construed by the Supreme court as confining the power to issue
these writs to cases in which they may be necessary for the exercise
of some branch of the jurisdiction given by other sections of this law
to the federal courts; not as an original, seperate and independent
authority to issue these writs; but to issue them only in cases in which
they may be necessary as the auxiliaries to give effect to some other
branch of their jurisdiction. Judge Fromentin for example had a
jurisdiction limited to two subjects: the revenue & slave laws: if in
any trial before Judge Fromentin's court, the testimony of either of
the persons committed by Gov' Jackson had been necessary, Judge
Fromentin would have had a right to issue a writ of habeas corpus
ad testificandum, because such writ would have been necessary for
the exercise of his jurisdiction: but in the case which has occurred, it
is not alledged and indeed cannot be, that any such necessity existed
for the writ. The section, however, goes on to provide—“that either
of the Judges of the Supreme Court as well as judges of the District
courts shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus for the purpose
of an enquiry into the cause of the commitment. Provided that writs
of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to prisoners in gaol, unless
where they are in custody under or by color of the authority of
the U. S. or are committed for trial before some court of the same, or
are necessary to be brought into court to testify.”—Now if Congress
had declared the laws of the U. S. generally, or this act, specially, to
be in force in Florida, at the same time that they declared the Spanish
System in force, (if such a chaos may be supposed for argument's sake)
Judge Fromentin, on the naked representation that these persons were
illegally confined under colour of the authority of the U. S. (the repre-
sentation being made according to legal usage) would have had the
power to issue his writ of habeas corpus for the purpose of an enquiry
into the cause of the commitment; but as soon as upon this enquiry
* Approved Sept. 24, 1789 (1 STAT. 81–82).



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 253
he had ascertained that they had been committed for a contempt by
the seperate and at least co-ordinate tribunal which was administering
the Spanish system of laws, he could not have taken another step in
that direction but would have been constrained to quash his writ &
remand the prisoners. If instead of ascertaining this state of things,
on the return of the habeas corpus, it had been made known to him in
the first instance and had been relied on as the ground of application
for the writ, he would not have been authorised to issue it: for this
writis never issued upon a statement which if true would not authorise
a discharge. Now this as I take it is the case which really occurred.
Judge Fromentin was informed that another, a seperate & inde-
pendent tribunal over which he had no control and with which he
had no more connexion than he had with the courts of Cuba or of
Spain, had committed these persons for a contempt of it's authority;
Suppose on the return of the habeas corpus these facts had appeared
to be true, could he have discharged these persons? He certainly
could not unless he possessed a Supervising and controlling power
over the acts of the other tribunal which can scarcely be pretended;
and since he could not discharge, the habeas corpus ought not to have
been awarded. This, even if this general authority as to habeas
corpus had been extended to Florida: as it was not, the writ was wholly
improper.
Judge Fromentin proceeded I have no doubt very honestly but on
a mistake both of Governor Jackson's powers & his own: he thought
that Judge Gov. Jackson had no judicial power, and that he had all
the judicial power which is conferred by the constitution and laws of
the U. S. on a district judge. This mistake proceeded from not
attending accurately to the provisions of the act of Congress of 3
March 21. He did not advert to the fact that by the force of this
law and your commission under it Gov. Jackson had succeeded to all
the powers military, civil & judicial of the Spanish Gov';-nor to the
fact that he, as a Judge of the U. S. possessed the power only to
execute such laws of the U. S. as had been extended by congress to
these U. S. territories: that he was, consequently, a judge only to the
purpose of executing the revenue & slave laws, possessing all the
judicial powers necessary to the enforcement of these laws; but no
more: & that consequently he had no right to interfere with Gov. J.'s
discharge of the seperate mass of judicial powers, which belonged to
him, and for the exercise of which he was responsible to the President,
not to Judge Fromentin.
This is my view of the case which I believe co:incides essentially
with your own. I have thrown it out for your consideration of the
ground on which I rest it, not meaning to offer it as an official opinion,
nor meaning this as an official letter.



254 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
With respect to Judge Fromentin, I have seen no evidence of his
unfitness, which ought to induce you to with. hold his nomination
from the Senate. The objection to his morals is mere report and may
be slander: and I do not think this mistake with regard to the habeas
corpus such a proof of incapacity as to justify your with. holding his
nomination from the Senate. Judging from the papers it will be
very strenously contended by a large body of editors and citizens,
perhaps judges & lawyers that it was no mistake; and even if it shall
be admitted to be a mistake, it will still be a very popular one. It was
an error on the side of liberty; and it evinces no ordinary share of
judicial courage to have followed the direction of his conscience when
it brought him directly and inevitably into collision with a man of
Gov. Jackson's energy. It will have an air of rather undignified
fickleness to have commissioned a man as judge, whom you will not
even nominate to the senate, on no better reason for the change of
opinion than a tale of scandal, unsupported by proof, the remonstrance
of a parcel of strangers, calling themselves the bar, whose oppor-
tunities of personal knowledge with regard to Judge Fromentin are
wholly unknown and with regard to whom he says that they are
utter strangers to him except one (M. Breckenridge) who accuse him
in general terms of immorality & incapacity, with" specifying the
testimony on which they rest their charges or the sources from which
they derive their information; or the complaints of a Gov' of Gen.'
Jackson's temperament, whose irascibility is in a blaze at the slightest
and most conscientious resistance to his authority. I am much
surprized that Fromentin so circumstanced, with the Gov. & bar sh"
wish to hold the office; but I am by no means satisfied that a com-
mission bestowed on full consideration, can with dignity or propriety
be re.called by a President of the U. S. for no better reasons than
these. There can be no doubt that there would be printers enough
who would be proud of the opportunity to repeat their cry of the fear
of Jackson, against the administration, and to exhibit Fromentin as
a victim sacraficed, through this fear, to the fiery Moloch; and tho’
I never would be deterred from taking a right step by the dread of
such a construction of my motives, yet I think the real grounds ought
at least to be so strong and prominent before the public as to rescue
the step, with all candid men, from such injurious misconstruction;
and I doubt whether this would be the case with regard to with.
holding the nomination of Judge Fromentin.
Besides; is it perfectly clear that you can revoke a commission
which has been accepted and acted on? The Arkansaw Judge,” at
the last session, had never entered on the duties of his commission;
but, on the contrary, had continued to discharge the duties of a
* Evidently an allusion to John Thompson; see Terr. Papers (Ark.), XIX, 36–37.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 255
previous commission, in the state of his residence, long after accepting
his commission for Arkansaw; these acts on his part were justly con-
sidered as a virtual resignation of this latter commission and you
nominated another gentleman. But Judge Fromentin has not only
accepted his commission, but gone to his appointment, organized his
court & entered on the discharge of his duties: The constitution
declares that commissions thus conferred shall eehtihtre expire at the
end of the next session of the Senate. Is it the meaning of this
clause that commissions thus conferred shall abide the pleasure of
the Senate only, or, was it intended to reserve to the President the
opportunity of making another choice? I am not informed of the
practise; but, abstractedly considered; I should regard a commission
conferred by the President in the recess of the Senate as amounting,
in general, to a promise that if the appointee sh" continue as deserving,
as he was at the time of his appointment, he would be nominated to
the Senate. I say in general: because where the President had made
an appointment under a gross deception, either as to the capacity or
integrity of the appointee, the paramount duty which he owes to the
public would absolve him from this implied promise to the appointee;
and I sh" consider him bound by his oath of office to name another
person. But the case, I think, should be a strong one which sh" call
for this course; something better than scandalous hista tales of
gallantry, personal dislikes either of Gov' or bar, or such a mistake of
law as that which Judge Fromentin has committed. This is the view
which I have at present, of this part of the case.
Gov. Jacksons proceedings with regard to the ex:governor Callava,
and Judge Fromentin may have been according to his Spanish author-
ity of which I cannot pretend to judge. It may have been, as you say,
merely an exercise of Spanish power too, much in the Spanish way.
Our friend the General certainly takes to this same Spanish power as
kindly as if it was natural to him: but you may rely upon it, it will
require all his popularity to gild this pill.
With regard to Callava (from what I suppose of Gov. Jackson's
Spanish power), if he, Callava, had been merely a private individual
of Spain who was about to elope with papers which, by the treaty,
belonged to the Province, I should readily believe Gov. Jackson alto-
gether right. But was Callava merely a private individual? Was he
not the commissioner charged by Spain with the fulfilment of the
treaty on her part; was it not in this character that he was in posses-
sion of the papers contained in those boxes which really belonged to
the King of Spain:-As the Commissioner of Spain was he not entitled
to the courtesy & respect due to the sovereign whom he represented:
and if in transferring the archives & documents, he retained any
which the commissioner of the other nation thought he ought to have
delivered, was the question to be settled by force? Was it according



256 T E R R IT OR I.A. L. PA P E R S
to the comity of nations in such a case that the commissioner of one
nation should lay violent hands on the other, and compel him to yield
to his sense of his duty? That Callava did wrong, that he acted
basely, if not corruptly, I have very little doubt: but still this act was
done in the sacred character of of the representative of the King of
Spain: it was an unfaithful execution of the treaty on the part of
Spain, for which the nation was liable; it was a just ground of remon-
strance to Spain: we had a right to call for these papers from her, and
to exact them at as great a hazard as we chose to encounter for them:
but to offer violence to the person of her representative, to seize &
imprison him; and to break open the boxes containing the papers
which belonged to the King his master, is, I apprehend, an act which
we shall find it difficult to justify to the civilized nations of the earth.
I am, it is true, not very conversant with questions of this sort;-but
had the tables been turned on us, well I know that we should have
made the welkin ring: as Shakespeare says, it would have been with
as but a word & a blow and the blow would probably have come first.
Now ‘do unto others as you would they should do unto you' is just as
sound a rule of action between nations as individuals. What would
have satisfied us?—The answer to this question may afford some light
as to what it is our duty to do.
The proceeding against Judge Fromentin is equally indefensible.
It was enough for Gov. Jackson to have refused obedience to the writ
of Habeas Corpus. Fromentin had no power to enforce it. He
could not practically have thwarted the Governor's course. And
after refusing obedience to the writ, both the Governor and the Judge
ought to have referred the question to you, & have, decorously, have
abided your decision. But for the Governor of a Territory, to sum-
mon a judge of the U.S. to his tribunal to answer for the discharge of
a conscientious duty, will not be tolerated by the people of this
country.
I verily beleive Jackson to be an honest man & a man of strong
natural sense—and a patriotic man too—as jealous of his country's
honor as any other man living, but he knows no law except the law
of force; and his want of information, combined with his violence, is
perpetually plunging him & his friends into difficulties, from which
it is not easy to escape without some loss of lustre. On the present
occasion, if even his great popularity saves him from general execra-
tion, it will be because one of the sufferers is a Spanish tool & the
other a French priest. Mº Calhoun * & myself think that it will be
* See his letter to the President, Oct. 14, 1821, in Jameson (ed.), Corr. Calhoun,
pp. 199—201. The Secretary of State also concurred in the views of the Atty.
Gen. and the Sec. of War on this point (Memoirs J. Q. Adams, v, 360). Other
entries by Adams pertaining to Jackson, Fromentin, and Callava can be found
ibid. pp. 365–379, 406–407, 413, 436–437, 440–442, 450–451, 453–454, 456,
460–464, 466–468.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 257
advisable for you to come down and give this subject the direction
you wish before the people, while yet the public opinion is green
enough to take any bent you please. It is manifest from the public
prints that the question as to the habeas corpus is not understood:
but it is equally manifest from them that a storm is brewing both for
Jackson & the administration unless some step shall be promptly
taken to avert it.
I beg you to excuse this long and rambling letter; which I have
written rather for your consideration than as expression of the opinion
to which I may, myself, be carried on a joint consultation. I thought
it desirable that your own attention and judgment should be called to
these views, and it is for this reason that I have thought it my duty
to make them.
I am myself perfectly persuaded that Governor Jackson's intentions
have been perfeetly correct throughout the whole of this affair. His
judgment too has been essentially right; for both Callava & Fromen-
tin had done wrong; and the Governor's error, I think, consists in his
having taken their punishment into his own hands. Even this error
may find an apology in the undefined and unknown powers with which
the act of Congress authorized him to be invested. There were, as I
understand, no books to inform him of the extent and limits of the
powers exercised by the Spanish Governor of the Floridas. The com-
mon impression was that they were of an arbitrary cast, and that for
the enforcement of an object, intrinsically just & right, their power
was almost unlimited. It was most probably in this view of the sub-
ject that he acted: & therefore I do not think that the case demands
more than the disapprobation of these measures: so far as the violence
offered to the person & property of the Spanish commissioner, & the
warrant or citation to Judge Fromentin go. Whether a prompt and
voluntary disclaimer should be tendered to the Spanish Government
is a point on which I have not yet had time to think.”
* See post, p. 257. The President's comments relative to Fromentin, Jackson,
and Callava, communicated to the Secretary of War, Oct. 11, 1821 (NA, WD,
SW Lets. Recd., P 84) are pertinent:
“In the affair at Pensacola, I am of opinion, as at present advised, that Mr
Fromentin had no right to issue a writ of H. C., he being appointed for the sole
purpose of executing the laws, for the collection of the revenue, & suppression of
the slave trade, no other ether laws, as is manifest by the act of Congress, being
extended to the Floridas, the laws of Spain on the contrary being specially,
maintaind, in force there, for the internal govt for the present. He mistook his
power therefore. With respect to the conduct of the governor, in regard to
Calava I have no doubt that the latter acted as a scoundrel, & deservd the chas-
tisement he receivd. The disgorgement of the papers, which he had suppressd,
proved this. With Spain, there may be some forms to be observ'd, in regard to
his arrest, not that I think, he had any diplomatic character or priviledges, but
that having been so lately the governor, her pride may be wounded, at a measure
toward him, so decisive, however well merited. After Congress have vested in
301867–57 18



258 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
I thank you for your kind enquiries for my health. I have not yet
recovered my strength or capacity for long continued exertion—but I
am in my office and working when I can. One of the properties that
marks the sickness of this fall is the very slow recovery of the suffer-
ers.-We called to see M* and M** Gouvernier & were much gratified to
learn that you were all well & to find the two young people in such
health & comparative spirits. I think you might safely venture
down yourself for a few days but you must not think of bringing
your family nor of coming yourself permanently as yet. I beg my
respects to M** Monroe in which M* W. joins me—and I pray you
to be assured of my friendship & devotion &
Wm WIRT
[Addressed] The President of the U. States
[Endorsed] Oct 11. 1821 Mr. Wirt. case of Judge Fromentin—
the Govt Spanish powers, can we censure him for exercising them, in the Spanish
way, especially in the furtherance of justice? If we hesitate, we may invite com-
plaint, from the Spanish government, which ought to checked & not invited.
Why has this man run to Washington? Does he expect to be presented & make
complaint, specially if his minister has withdrawn, after knowing of the occur-
rence, without making any? Mr Jefferson referrd me to an occurrence, which he
thought similar, in his adm", the arrest of the Spanish agent who ran, with Ellicot
the boundary line, at Baton rouge, & the seizure of the papers which he with held,
the details of which he says may be found in Ellicots correspondence in the dep"
of State. Mr Jeffersons name, you will not mention, but the documents should
be examind. I believe that Laussat the French agent was also laid hold, at N.
orleans, after the surrender of Louisiana. In the instance first mentiond, Mr
Jefferson observ'd, that according to his recollection, the Spanish govt never
complaind, knowing that its agent was in the wrong. Should I come down
immediately, might I not invite complaint, & if it was supposed to be connected
with the occurrence, give in consequence to it, to our disadvantage? When any
mov'ment, is an affair of delicacy, & measures are substantially in the right train,
tho' of a nature, to make even their sanction by the gov", the ground of complaint,
as in the arrest of Mr Calava, it may be with Spain, & so far as it indicates a
departure from our usages, with many among ourselves, untill the affair is better
understood, the longer the government holds back & declines acting the better
the effect may be. I suggest these ideas for your consideration.
If the laws of Spain are establishd by our law for the internal govt of the
provinces, it follows, even if the district judge's jurisdiction extended the whole
length, that he could not issue a writ of H. C., for such writ was never heard of,
in a country where the inquisition & military despotism prevail. In every view
therefore Mr Fromentin mistook his duty. I am persuaded, that so long & to
such extent, has been the reign, & practice of corruption, in that country, that it
will require, much energy, & decision, to root it out. A relaxd course may tend
to sanction, every unprincipled claim under the preceeding governments. Its
opposite, will make a stand against, & check, and as I hope suppress them.”



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 259
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC: Jackson Papers, Vol. 61:ALS)
PENSACOLA 22” October 1821.
MY DEAR GOVERNOR. I have the honor to forward to you by this
mail, a letter from Mº Penniers enclosing a memoir on East Florida—
Also a communication from the Department of State, and four private
letters.
The most perfect tranquility reigns here—The Town is fast de-
creasing in population.
A little Admiralty case has occurred, which has occasioned some
doubts to be raised (by those most friendly to the Government)
whether under my Commission from you as Governor of W. Florida,
I have judicial powers to the extent of your decision in the case of
Vidal vs Innerarity.” It has also been suggested that in your absence
I may exercise all the powers which you exercised, by virtue of your
Commissions within this Province. It has not become necessary
for me to decide on this point, nor shall I do so (if it can be avoided)
until I have your advice on the subject.
Captain Ramage * came into our harbor a few days since, and
informs me, that he has discovered a piratical rendezvous on the
south side of Cuba, consisting of four armed vessels.-Capt." Ramage
touched at Ship Island on his way here, and made an arrangement
with Captain Kearney to meet him off the Barrancas yesterday,
and to sail in pursuit of these Pirates. I hope they will soon give a
good account of them.
I have been much disappointed in not hearing by mail of your
progress. My next communication will be addressed to you at
Nashville.
I have the satisfaction of informing you that as far as I have heard
of the elections in Georgia, it gives the promise of a complete triumph
of Principle. Col. Cumming * has not succeeded in getting into the
Legislature.
Present me in the Kindest manner to M** Jackson, & Miss Hays,”
and also to the Gentlemen of your family—particularly to Dº Bronaugh,
and assure him that I will do myself the pleasure of writing him by
the next mail.
* This decision was transmitted to the Sec. of State by Jackson, Sept. 30, 1821
(NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII), and is printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 814–818.
The original decision has not been found.
” James Ramage.
* Lawrence Kearney.
* Alexander Cummings.
* Narcissa Hays, a niece of Mrs. Jackson, who had accompanied her to Pensa-
cola, and had returned with the Jacksons to Tennessee.



260 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Accept my dear Governor, the renewed assurance of my high
consideration and unalterable devotion.
GEO WALTON
TO HIS EXCELLENCY ANDREW JACKSON.
[Endorsed] 1821. George Walton to Gen' Jackson 22° October—
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX 4)
Department of State WASHINGTON 26. Oct. 1821
ANDREW JACKSON Esquire Governor of Florida.
SIR. I have had the honour of receiving your Letters of 30. July.”
26. August,” and 1. September,' with their respective enclosures
which have been submitted to the consideration of the President of
the United States.
I now inclose copy of a Letter which I have by his direction written
to Judge Fromentin,” informing him that it was understood and in-
tended that his jurisdiction should be confined to the execution of the
only Laws of the United States which by act of Congress had been
extended to the Territories of Florida, namely the Laws relating to
the Revenue and its collection, and the Slave trade.
In the execution of these laws, which are of a nature, entirely
distinct from those of Spain, operating in the Provinces, the President
is of opinion that he should be amenable only to the Government of
the United States.
I enclose also translations of a Letter from Mº Salmon Charge
d'Affaires of Spain,” and of a Statement by Colonel Callava,” relative
to the arrest and detention of his person, and the forcible seizure, and
abduction, under your authority, of certain papers which were in his
possession, with a Copy of the answer given to the Letter of M*
4 Printed also in Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 125–126. Another copy is
in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII).
* Ante, p. 137.
• NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII), printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 112–116,
relating to the Callava-Fromentin-Jackson affair. It was first acknowledged
Sept. 24 by Daniel Brent, clerk, State Dept., and by him forwarded to the Secre-
tary of State, then in Boston. The letter, with its enclosures, was printed in a
report of the Secretary of State in 1822 (H. Exec. Doc. 42, 17 Cong., 1 sess.), and
reprinted in A. S. P., Misc., II, 801-802.
7 NA (SD, loc. cit.), enclosing a copy of his letter to John R. Bell, Sept. 1, 1821,
and a copy of George J. F. Clarke's letter to Bell, July 25, 1821, describing the
geography, history, and resources of Florida. Both enclosures are present.
* Infra.
9 Oct. 6, 1821, printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., iv, 767–768.
10 Oct. 3, 1821, printed ibid., pp. 768–787, including an appendix to “protest”
of Callava which contains observations by Callava, testimony, and various
relevant documents in support of his protest against Jackson's action.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 261
Salmon "-Before an ultimate answer shall be given to the Spanish
Minister,” upon this complaint, the President has thought it proper to
transmit these Documents to you, with the purpose of receiving any
remarks, either in relation to the facts alledged, or to the principles
asserted in them, which you may think the occasion requires.
Appreciating, as the President does, the sense of duty under which
you felt yourself compelled to resort to to these measures, and the
objects of high impartial justice to which they were in your estimation
rendered indispensable; I am directed to invite your attention to the
following circumstances represented in these papers.
1. That Colonel Callava, claimed as of right the immunities, with
reference to his person, to his dwelling house, and to his papers,
which by the customary Laws of nations belong to public Commis-
sioners appointed to negotiate or to execute Treaty stipulations
between nation and nation.
2. That you had transacted business with him in the Capacity of a
public Commissioner as late as third of August, three weeks after
the day on which the surrender had been made of the Territory.
3. That the papers finally seized by your orders, had never been
officially demanded, and that he had offered to deliver them or give
adequate security that they should be delivered, if they should
prove to be of the description of papers stipulated by the Treaty
to be left in the Territory.
4. That at the time when he was forcibly brought before you, and
required to submit to examination upon interrogatories, neither
the questions asked of him, nor his answers were correctly inter-
pretted.
It is proper to apprize you that in the opinion of the President, so
far as Colonel Callava, could justly claim the Rights of a Commis-
sioner for the surrender of the Territory, he was entitled to all the
immunities which might be necessary for the execution of his trust,
and which the Laws of Nations recognize as belonging to public
Ministers—As authority for this opinion, I refer you to Wattal,”
Book 4. chap. 6 & S 75—and Chap. 9 & S 125
A different sentiment appearing from your Letter of the 26 August
to have been entertained by you, it would be satisfactory to learn
upon what grounds it had been taken up, or if the privileges incident
to this immunity, had in your view ceased, it is desirable to know the
considerations upon which you had so deemed of them; the view
11 Addressed by the Secretary of State to Don Joaquin de Anduaga, Spanish
Minister to the United States, Nov. 2, 1821, printed ibid., pp. 787–788.
12 Dec. 31, 1821, in further reply (printed ibid., p. 791), as well as in answer
to the following additional letters from the Spanish Minister dated respectively
Nov. 14, Nov. 18, Nov. 22, and Dec. 27, 1821 (printed ibid., pp. 788–791).
in E. de Wattell, Droit des Gens (1758, English translation, 1760).



262 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
taken of them in the answer to the note of Mº Salmon, admitting the
right only in general terms, and inferring that they had ceased by the
act of surrender, and of reasonable time for departure, as well as by
the limitation of the time for the surrender stipulated in the Treaty.”
I shall reply as early as possible to the other subjects of your Letters,
and in the mean time have the honour to be with great Respect, Sir,
your very humble and obedient Servant.
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
P. S. Since the foregoing was written, your Letters of the 4” and
6 October,” and one from Manuels without date " has been received
at this Office. Nov. 5.
List of papers enclosed
1 Secretary of State to Judge Fromentin 26 Oct. 1821
2 Mº Salmon to Secretary of State (Translation) 6 Oct
3 Col Callavas protest (translation) 3 Oct
4 Secretary of State to M' d'Anduaga 2 Nov
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO JUDGE FROMENTIN
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:C 18]
Department of State, WASHINGTON, 26 October 1821.
ELEGIUS FROMENTIN. Esq.' Judge U.S.—Pensacola.
SIR. I have had the honor of receiving your letters of 20.”26.” and
28* August.” 6.8.” and 21. September” with their respective en-
closures—all which have been submitted to the President of the United
States.
I am directed by him to inform you that the Laws of the United
States relative to the Revenue and its collection, and those relating
14 Answered Nov. 22, 1821, printed, Bassett (ed.), op. cit., pp. 133–139, from
the original in NA (SD, Misc. Lets.). This was a further rationalization of
Jackson's arrest of Callava.
15 NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii.1), a brief letter covering some 16 maps,
surveys and drawings of roads, rivers, forts, boundaries, and coast lines. All are
present.
10 NA (SD, loc. cit.), printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 909–911.
17 NA (SD, loc. cit.), enclosing a petition (without date) of the county court of
Escambia, relative to the county jail; a recommendation of the grand jury at
Pensacola, Oct. 4, 1821 that certain repairs be made to the jail; and an extract
of a letter from George Brown to Jackson, giving information on the A-la-chee-way
country. All are present and are listed in Parker, op. cit., p. 76.
1* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 848.
1° Ante, p. 173.
20 Ante, p. 184.
* NA (Fla. Terr. Papers, vii), printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 837 under date of
Aug. 23.
22 Sept. 6 and Sept. 8 (loc. cit.), printed ibid., pp. 838–841.
* Loc. cit., printed ibid., pp. 843–844.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 263
to the Slave trade, having been the only ones extended by act of Con-
gress to the Territories of Florida, it was to the execution of them that
your Commission as Judge of the United States was considered and
intended to apply—The President thought the authority of Congress
alone competent to extend other Laws of the United States to the
newly acquired territories, nor could he give to the Judge a Jurisdiction
which could be conferred only by them. There being an essential
difference between the nature of the powers, heretofore exercised, by
the Spanish authorities in those provinces, which were continued in
force, by the Act of the 3° of March last” until the end of the next
Session of Congress, unless a temporary Government should bee sooner
established over them and of the Laws of the U. States, which were
extended to those provinces by that Law, the President considered it
his duty to entrust the execution of each branch to Officers Specially
appointed for the purpose. In the execution of those Laws in your
judicial capacity, the Governor has been informed that you are con-
sidered responsible only to the Government of the U. States.
In the different view which you have taken of the Subject, he is
persuaded that your motives and intentions were entirely pure,
though he deeply regrets the collision of authority and misunder-
standing which have arisen between the Governor of the territory and
you.”
I have the honor to be very respectfully, Sir, Your humble and
Obedt Servº
(signed) JOHN Q. ADAMS.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 27 Octr 1821.
W. G D WORTHINGTON Secy & acts Govt of E Florida.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 9th inst” by which I regret to
learn the death of Mr Penieres.
You are, as Acting Governor of E. Florida acting Superintendent of
Indian Affairs for that portion of the Territory. I enclose herewith an
extract of standing regulations which will govern your issue of pro-
visions to such Indians as visit you on business, and also a Copy of
an Act “to regulate trade &°. with the Indian tribes” for your infor-
mation.
Capt Bell has been appointed Indian Agent pro-tem to hold a con-
ference with the Seminoles in the apprehension that Gen' Jackson
* Ante, p. 5.
* See post, p. 275.
* Ante, p. 249.



264 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
would be absent from Florida and thereby unable to attend to that
duty. You will pass over Mº Penieres papers relating to Indian
business to Cap' Bell as they may be of use to him in the performance
of the duty assigned him.
I have &c.
J. C. C.
-
-
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO PETER PELHAM
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 29 Oct" 1821.
CAPTAIN PETER PELHAM Sub Agent &° Washington City
SIR. I herewith enclose you an appointment as Sub Agent for
Indian Affairs in Florida in the place of Mº Penieres. You will report
yourself to Cap" Bell the temporary Indian Agent for Florida at S*
Augustine who is fully instructed on all points relative to the Indians
and will afford you every proper facility in the execution of your
duties.
Your compensation will be at the rate of $500 per annum in full
for your Services.
I have &c J. C. C.
[Enclosure]
Appointment of Peter Pelham as Indian Subagent
(October 29, 1821]
TO CAPTAIN PETER PELHAM
Your are hereby with the approbation of the President of the
United States appointed Sub Agent for Indian Affairs in Florida, and
vested with all necessary powers for the due execution of the duties
of said appointment, under the orders of the Governor, or in case of
his absence of the acting Governor of the Floridas and of Captain
Bell, who has been appointed temporary agent for Indian Affairs in
Florida
Given under my hand & the Seal of the
War Office of the U States this 29* day of
October 1821.
(Signed). J. C. CALHOUN



FL, OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 265
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VIII:LS 27]
PENSACOLA 29* October 1821.
SIR. Presuming that the President would be desirous to be in-
formed of the state of Affairs in this Province, I have thought it advise-
able to communicate with the Department direct, not having yet
heard of the arrival of the Governor at Nashville, for which place he
set out on the eighth instant.
The Department is already fully informed of the disposition made
by Gen' Jackson previous to his departure.” He was pleased to dele-
gate to me the powers exercised by the former Governor of West
Florida, accompanying my Commission with a letter of instructions.”
Since his departure, I have been in the exercise of those functions, and
shall use my best exertions to justify the confidence of the President,
and the expectations of General Jackson.
Nothing suggests itself at present of sufficient importance to com-
municate. All things go on well, and the march of the Government
is peaceable and undisturbed.
The excitement occasioned by measures deemed necessary by the
Governor, is subsiding, and since the departure of the Spanish Officers,
there seems to be a much greater disposition on the part of the Span-
ish Inhabitants to cultivate a friendly feeling.
Nothing has been heard of Gen' Jackson since he left Claiborne; by
this time I think it probable that he has reached the State of Tennessee.
I have the honor to be, with great consideration. Your Obdt Sevt.
GEO WALTON
Sec. W. Florida & Act Governor of the same—
THE HON” JoHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State.
-:
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE MAYOR OF ST. AUGUSTINE 30
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:C 31]
ST AUGUSTINE Octr 30th 1821
SIR I have the honor this moment to receive yours of yesterday *—
I think if the exegincies of the corporate Government of this City are
not too pressing to be for a time postponed, a delay should take place,
* Printed also in A. S. P., Misc., II, 896.
* See ante, p. 237.
** Ante, p. 229.
* James G. Forbes.
* Enclosed by Worthington to the Sec. of State, Dec. 11, 1821 (post, p. 301).
* Present as enclosure A.



266 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
in collecting even “such Taxes as may be necessary for the support of
the Town Government”—Because at this time, when the prevailing
sickness has so much distressed the inhabitants, destroyed so many
and driven numbers away, 'till this epidemic shall pass by If in levy-
ing the Taxes it should be necessary to seize on property and offer it
for sale it would be literally sacrifised—But I understand the Taxes
are disputed en masse by the citizens, because they say General
Jackson in his Commission is restricted in levying or collecting any
new or additional Taxes—that there never were any Taxes here before,
of course the present are new—and that no person acting under him
in the Floridas can levy or collect them—This opinion I am told is
adopted from a publication in the Floridian of the 15” ulto. quoting
General Jacksons commission as read in a law suit at Pensacola by
the heirs of Vidal versus John Innerarity “-I think this is not a suf-
ficient justification for any person in refusing to pay the Taxes—The
great question is are the Taxes necessary and have they been imposed
by the proper Tribunal—I have heard—no body deny one or the other,
except those who seem to think a Government must support itself,
not by a mild and open system of general and equal Taxation, but by
drawing money from some other quarter of the union, or by keeping
up the miserable expedient of exorbitant fees, perduisites, bribery and
corruption—The publication in the Floridian is unofficial and cannot
certainly impugn the power of the Mayor and City Council, expressly
given them by General Jackson—The Commissions of the Mayor and
City Council men were signed by General Jackson, exercising the
powers of the Captain General of the Island of Cuba &". and counter-
signed by me as Secretary in and for East Florida
They do not emanate from me, if they did there might be some
doubt, as I am expressly restricted, and any one acting under me, in
my Commission of the 1* of July from him *—
But I take it for granted he is not, or he would not so expressly have
delegated the power in the 2° Sec. of Ordinance N° 1.—
Furthermore the commission of the 10" of March quoted in the
Floridian,” is not the only commission issued by the President to
General Jackson—He has had three—that of the 20" of March is
now before me,” and this he enclosed to me, as my guide—The restric-
tive clause concerning Taxes or Grants is not in it—No doubt it is
expected that as to Taxes no more shall be laid or collected than may
be absolutely necessary—I would recommend you to try one case,
where the inconveniencies of this crisis may not be felt—then lay the
whole transactions before me, with the ordinances of the City Council
* See ante, p. 184, n.
* Ante, p. 104.
** Ante, p. 9. -
* Ante, p. 18; the third commission, dated Mar. 10, 1821, is ante, p. 8.



FL OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 267
&c and I will transmit it to General Jackson for his decision I am cer-
tain neither he nor you nor myself wish any thing of the inhabitants
of Florida, but what is right, constitutional and proper—And I am
equally certain that the inhabitants of Florida are disposed on a fair
understanding of things, to do all that is proper, constitutional and
right—Therefore let us adopt the mildest and most conciliatory
COUlrCe—
Yours Very Respectfully &"
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HON* THE MAYOR of the City of St Augustine East Florida
[Endorsed] 30. Oct ’21 WGDW. to The Mayor. B. In Sec: Worth-
ington's of 11 Dec 1821.
DANIEL BRENT TO RICHARD W. EDES
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xix)
Department of State WASHINGTON 1. Nov. 1821
Mr RICHARD W. EDES Editor of the Florida Gazette St Augustine.
SIR. I am directed by the Secretary to ask you to consider this
Department as a Subscriber for your Gazette from the beginning;
you are requested therefore to furnish it immediately with a file of
all the numbers, which have yet been printed, and to send forward
regularly those which are henceforward published, as they come from
the press.”
I am, Respectfully, Sir, your ob" Servant.
DANIEL BRENT
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:JD, Opins. Attys. Genl., Bk. B]
N° 197. Power of the President to order the discharge of an Officer
of U.S. arrested at the Suit of a citizen.—Capt: Bell’s case. Acting
Governor of Florida.
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE U. S.
November 5. 1821.
SIR, The letter of Abrº Eustis, from St Augustine, of date 2 Oct.
last,” which you have done me the honor to refer to me, states—
“Capt. Bell is arrested at the suit of one Fairbanks whom he ordered
to be confined in the Fort (for being concerned in negro-stealing)
before the civil government was organized and while he was acting
* An identical letter of the same date was sent to Nicholas and Tunstall, editors
of the Floridian at Pensacola.
* NA (WD, AGO Lets. Recd.).



268 T E R R ITO R. I. A. L. P. A P E R S
as provisional Governor.”—In your endorsement on this letter you
inform me that “Capt Bell acted under the authority of Gen Jackson,
in the place of M* Worthington until his arrival. It was for an act
performed in that trust that he has been arrested”. Your question
is whether the President can order his discharge?—
Had the case occurred in any state or any other territory of the
United States, there would be no difficulty in answering the question
in the Negative: nothing being clearer as a general position under the
Constitution and laws of the U. States, than that the President has
no right to interfere in a civil suit between two citizens. The Gover-
nors of all the territories and states, are answerable for torts done
by them, under color of their office: they may plead, in their defence,
that the act was lawfully done under the authority of their office,
and if the defence be true in fact, it will avail them before the Court
which tries the cause: but it is not in the power of the President to
interfere, in any manner, with the progress and termination of the
suit. It would be monstrous if it were otherwise in a republican
government since under the English monarchy the governor of a
distant province, armed both with civil and military power, was held
subject to the action of an individual in England, and amerced in
very heavy damages for a tresspass and false imprisonment: I allude
particularly to the case of Martyn vs. Fabrigas. Cowper's Reports
161. Such is the answer which I should give to the question had the
case occurred anywhere else within our limits, than in the Floridas:
but as the matter stands the question refers itself to a system of
foreign Laws with which I am not acquainted.
The Constitution (article 4* Section 3 clause 2) declares that
“Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rule
and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging
to the United States”.-In the exercise of this power Congress at the
last session by the act for carrying into execution the treaty between
the U. S. and Spain provided “that untill the end of the first session
of the next Congress unless provision for the temporary government
of said territories (the Floridas) be sooner made by congress, all the
military, civil and judicial powers exercised by the officers of the
existing government of the same territories shall be vested in such
person or persons and shall be exercised in such manner as the Presi-
dent of the U. S. shall direct &” In pursuance of this act Gen Jackson
received a commission which clothed him with all the powers of the
Governor and Captain General of Cuba over these provinces; and it
was while acting as his substitute that Capt Bell did the act which
subjected him to the suit of Fairbanks. If the Governor and
Captain General of Cuba was, at the time, of the enactment of this
law, was in the exercise of a power which authorized him to discharge
an ex Governor of Florida from civil suits; for acts done in his capacity



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 269
of Governor, Governor Jackson having succeeded to the same power,
may discharge, in like manner, the ex governor Capt Bell from the
suit of Fairbanks, and if possessing the power he declines exercising it,
spontaneously, then, as he is to act under your instructions, you may
instruct him to do it. The question—therefore as to your power,
depends on the Constititution and laws of the Spanish Monarchy,
with regard to the government of its provinces, with which I am not
sufficiently acquainted to answer the question proposed to me. The
extent of these powers as they were actually exercised in the Floridas
(the criterion assumed by the act of Congress) can be more easily
and safely ascertained on the theatre of their exercise, and by those
who can have access to the records and archives of the provinces while
under the Government of Spain, than by us at this distance and the
disadvantages under which we labor. Governor Jackson, or his
representative might, if you think proper be instructed to examine
both the merits of the particular case of M* Bell and the extent of
the power, and to examine it or not as the justice of the case might
seem to require or to report to you for your farther consideration.
I shall only observe in closing, that even if the power should be found
to exist, it is so entirely at war with our political institutions and modes
of thinking, that nothing can render its exercise palatable or even
endurable, but the averting of some extreme injustice which cannot
be otherwise avoided & if M Eustis statement may be relied on such
injustice seems to be threatened in the case of Capt Bell.”
I have the honor to remain, Sir, Very respectfully Your Obed
Servt
Wm. WIRT
THE PRESIDENT OF THE U. STATES
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE Nov 5 1821
SIR I have the honor to enclose herewith a letter received from
Don Fernando de la Maza Arredondo addressed to the Secretary of
War,” on the subject of an intended location & survey of a grant of
land by the Captain Gen' of Cuba to Arredondo & Son in 1817 for
* The outcome of this case was the imposition of a fine upon Captain Bell.
A group of citizens, including Gabriel W. Perpall, Joseph M. Hernandez, Josiah
Smith, F. M. Arredondo, Bernardo Segui, and Guillermo Travers, as proof of
their belief that the Captain had acted in the public welfare, made an offer to him
on Dec. 21, 1821, to pay the fine, which he accepted the next day (NA, SD, Fla.
Terr. Papers, Ix; both letters printed, Vignoles, Observations, pp. 31–34).
* Nov. 3, 1821; a translation is present. The original letter is in NA (SD,
Misc. Letters).



270 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
about 400,000 acres or eight leagues square in the Alachua country"—
I understand two of the conditions of said grant to be, that it shall be
without injury to a third person and particularly to the native Indians
of the soil, or country. I am not yet aware how far, the consent of
the Indians has been obtained relative to this grant, my impression
however is that not a single condition named in the grant has been
legally complyed with, as far as it respects the consent of the Indians—
I shall be able to assertain fully at the talk appointed to be held at
Alachua on the 20" instant I have said in reply to Arredondos appli-
cation for permission to survey the track imbraced in the grant
alluded to, that I am not authorized to give permission to any person
or persons to make a settlement on lands belonging to the Indians,
or to survey or attempt to survey or designate any boundaries by
marking trees or otherwise within the limits of the Indian country of
Florida, which limits or boundaries was settled by the English and
Indians at a talk held at Picolata on the 18 Nov 1765 * which also
appears to have been admitted and acknowledged by the Spanish
authorities at a talk held at Pensacola in May 1784 * and in all
treaties and talks since whenever boundaries or lands has been spoken
of,” without particular instructions from the department of war—
If I am incorrect in not allowing surveying parties to traverse the
Indian country without the authority of the Gov' of the United States,
it is desirable that I receive more particular instructions on the sub-
ject, as soon as practicable, for until I do, not a settler or an attempt
at suvey will be permitted by me in the Indian country—
I have not the least doubt but that the Spanish authorities have
uniformily admitted the right of the Indians to the country within
certain limits expressed in the treaty of 1765 made by the English
and Indians renewed again and confirmed by the Spaniards in 1784,
altho' the treaties or copies of them are not to be found here; the
treaty of 84 was here in 1813, for we find that Don Onis “was at that
time furnished with a copy of it—However on examining the Archives
taken from the late Spanish officers at this place enough has been
found and retained in my opinion to satisfy the Gov" that the grants
made by the late Spanish government here, of lands in the Indian
territory without providing for the extinguishing of the Indian tittle.
will be null and void—
41 Considerable documentation relating to the confirmation of this grant, which
finally occurred in 1832, can be found in A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III, and IV, and in
HRS, Fla., Spanish Land Grants in Florida, 1–v.
** The pertinent article of this treaty is printed in White, New Coll. of Laws,
II, 313.
* The text of this treaty is printed, ibid., 318–322, and in Wait's State Papers,
x, 223–227.
* Luis de Onis, Spanish minister in the United States.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 271
The grants by the Capt General of Cuba as well as I understand,
conditions, that the consent of the Indians must be had in all cases
before a suvey can take place—I have lately discovered a consider-
able stir among the Spanish inhabitants who hold grants, and who
have been forbid going into the Indian country to trade as license can
only be granted to an American citizen or those who have taken the
oath of allegiance to the United States.
I have the honor to be Respectfully Sir your most obed" Serv"
JN° R. BELL
To THE HONOURABLE JOHN C CALHOUN Secretary of War Wash-
ington
[Endorsed] John R. Bell to the Sec. of War—
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE E. F. 6th November 1821
SIR I have felt a delicacy in addressing you on passing events since
the establishment of Governor Worthington in this province as I feel
proud in promoting his administration, and therefore Confined myself
to the mere transmission regularly of our weekly newspaper. which
has exhibited a melancholy picture of the distressed situation of this
Province become worse than my predictions had anticipated—The
Sittings of the Courts and the payment of our city Taxes suspended!—
The Epidemic unfortunately prevails and now rages among the
Troops, having ceased to be violent among the Northern people as
they cease to exist—I have nevertheless been Constantly attending
to my duties as Mayor sometimes unaided by the Aldermen on account
of the Sickness which yield nothing by way of emolument—The ap-
pointment of Marshal less, as no Court has been yet established here—
I have given Bond & appointed a Deputy at Pensacola but in neither
place does it appear that any business has occurred for the District
Court.
The matter of the Archives here, has however engaged some of
my attention *—
I have taken the liberty of drawing on the Department for $410
in favor of M** Forbes which I request may be paid I am with the
highest respect Sir Your very faithful & most obed Servant
JAMES G. FORBES
TO THE HONBLE J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State &c &c
[Endorsed] James G. Forbes—Recd 24
* See post, p. 333.



272 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE Novº 12. 1821–
SIR-By last mail I received a letter from Gen' Jackson * on the
subject of our difference, respecting the occupation of the Public
Property, mentioned by me, to you in my letter of the 9” Ulto"—
The dispute concerning the Government House has been handsomely
settled by L' Col. Eustis, as you will see by my Correspondence with
him marked N° 1. 2.-
I hope the remainder of this unpleasant Controversy will terminate
speedily & equally amicable.
I have laid the whole dispute both before you & him—
I feel that all the disagreeable parts of my administration of this
Province, have in a manner drawn to a close & Genl Jackson has
approved, both of my sentiments & acts—I trust the President will
have no cause to complain of me—
The Commissioners have just finished their examination of the
Archives & Documents, which I took from the Ex Governor Col.
Coppinger & the Escribano, Mr Entralgo—I will have the honor to
enclose them to you next mail—
The sickness rages here still beyond any thing I ever saw or heard
of.” I will give you a melancholy example—Viz Chief Justice Fitch,
died some time ago—since then his two sons & last night his wife &
his remaining Child—He was a native of Massachusetts—was worth
a large estate, from the practice of the Law in Georgia & his wife a
sister or near relative of Governor Clarke *—
No frost here yet—& They say it will not stop till we have a black
frost—
Judge Duval & Mr Hackly * I believe are the only two U States
Civil officers who have not yet arrived—
With distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State
[Addressed] The Honble John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—Recd 1 Decº
** Oct. 1, ante, p. 225.
*7 Ante, p. 247.
* Cf. post, p. 284.
** John Clark, Governor of Georgia.
30 Richard S. Hackley.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 273
[Enclosures]
Acting Governor Worthington (East Florida) to Abraham Eustis
S* AUGUSTINE November 7th 1821–
SIR I have the honor to enclose you a sealed note received from
General Jackson, I also take leave to invite your attention to the
following extract of a letter to me as Secretary of East Florida from
General Andrew Jackson in his official Character of Governor of the
Floridas & dated Pensacola 1* October 1821 *—
“You, whilst acting as the Executive of East Florida, have a right
to occupy the Government House, and the military must be supplied
with Quarters in the Fort or town or other Public Buildings, it is
true, I resigned the Government House here to the Officers, because
I found it in decay, and that by yielding it to the officers and renting
for my self, there would be a great saving to the Public”—
So soon as it will suit your convenience and that of such of the
officers and troops as may occupy the Gov' House and premises to
give me and my family possession under this opinion of General
Jackson, it will much oblige me, as I wish to move my furniture and
Servants in it this week and bring my family in the beginning of
next—I shall be sorry to put these officers to any inconvenience, but
as I believe they are all single Gentlemen I presume their removal to,
I hope, as comfortable Quarters will be of little consequence to them—
I desire it to be distincly understood both by you and them, that I
wish to act under this opinion of General Jackson, with the utmost
delicacy and friendship towards them—
Will you do me the favor to inform me as early as your convenience
will permit, when ocupation may be had of the premises.
Yours with great respect
W. G. D WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Actng Governor of East Florida
CoL. A. EUSTIS Commanding U. S. Troops. Saint Augustine.
[Endorsed] Nº 1 with Secº Worthingtons Letter of 12 Nov 1821.
Abraham Eustis to Acting Governor Worthington (East Florida)
(Copy) SAINT AUGUSTINE Novº 8* 1821
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge your Communication of
yesterday: The opinion of Governor Jackson respecting the Govern-
ment House will be acceded to without delay. The Kitchen and two
rooms on the first floor are now vacant and your Servants and Furni-
ture may be sent there as soon as you think proper.—The third
Basement room is at present occupied by the family of a Serjeant of
Captain Bell's Company. He and his Wife's Sister are now very
* Ante, p. 225.
301867–57–19



274 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
sick with Yellow Fever, but they shall be removed as soon as practicable
either to the Grave or to other quarters.-I have ordered Doctor
M“Coskry and Captain Bell to vacate the rooms occupied by them
before Monday next.—A temporary stable has been erected by the
Quarter Masters Department in an enclosure belonging to the premises
and separated from the habitable part of the building by a high Wall.—
Access may be had to it without entering the Court yard. If we can
continue to occupy it, it will afford accomodation to the U. S. and
officers horses; but if there be the slightest objection on your part,
I will cause the building to be removed immediately to some other
public lot.—One half of the Garden has been tilled and a portion of
it planted by the Soldiers. Be pleased to inform me whether they
may continue to cultivate and reap the Crop. I fear that without
very considerable expence you will not be able to make this Building
comfortable for your family.—
I avail myself of this occasion to assure you that I shall be happy
at all times to afford you the aid of my Command for the purpose of
enforcing the Laws or of enabling you to administer the Government
according to your Instructions.—
I hope and trust that the harmony which has hitherto existed
between the Civil and Military Departments in East Florida may
continue undisturbed and I tender you the assurance of the personal
Esteem Consideration and Respect of
Your humble Servant
ABR" EUSTIs, L' Col.
Comm” U. S. Troops at S* Augustine
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Esq. Secretary & Acting Governor of
East Florida.-
[Endorsed] Nº 2. with Secretary Worthington's Letter of 12 Nov"
1821.
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:LS ºl
HERMITAGE 13° November 1821.
D* SIR, In my letter of the 5* Ult” “I advised you that the organi-
zation of the Government of the Floridas was complete and that it
was my intention to leave Pensacola for my residence in this state in
a few days. I now have the satisfaction to inform you that I arrived
here on the 5* Inst: with my family, all except one Servant, in
ordinary health. As yet, I have been disappointed in receiving
any communications from Florida since I left it, and cannot therefore
* There is also a copy in LC (Jackson Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
* Printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 122–124, from a copy in N. Y.
Hist. Soc.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 275
say, whether it will be necessary for me to return there before the
meeting of Congress; but should any thing occur there, to render
my presence necessary, you may rest assured that I will repair thither
without delay.
I have this day enclosed to the Secretary of State for your informa-
tion, copies of the correspondence between Judge Fromentin and my-
self, * with the certificates which accompanied my last letter to him,
& with two others, which completely establishes the fact, that he
stated falsehoods knowingly & wilfully, in his letter to me. This I
found necessary as it appears that he has had the hardihood to stir
this subject in the public prints, and has circulated the correspondence,
as I suppose, without the certificates.
As I informed you in my last, having fully organized the Govern-
ment and set it in operation, this fulfills the condition upon which I
accepted the appointment. By D' Bronaugh who will hand you this,
I send enclosed my resignation, requesting that at as early a day, as
will suit your convenience, you will appoint a successor and accept
my resignation, that I may be relieved from the duties assigned me
and retire to private life.”
I am Sir with great respect Yº M" Obº Serv"
ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MONROE President of the U. States.
[Endorsed] Nov 13. 1821 Gen' Jackson to J Monroe resigns as Gov.
of Florida.
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M 59]
- NASHVILLE, November 13* 1821.
SIR, Having organized the government of the Floridas, which is
now in complete operation; and having accepted of the appointment
of Governor upon the condition, that as soon as this object was
accomplished, I should be at liberty to retire from that station; I
therefore beg leave to transmit to you this my resignation as Gover-
nor of the Floridas, which I am in hopes you will accept, and appoint
a successor to relieve me of my duties, as soon as it will meet your
convenience.
During my administration, cases were presented, that required the
energy of the law to protect the humble citizen in the rights secured
to him by the provisions of the treaty. I trust, in this, as well as in
all other cases of official duty, you will find, that I kept justice in
* Present in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, IX) with its enclosures.
** Answered post, p. 316. . . - *
* Copy in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix).



276 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
view, and the law for my guide. It would be a gratification to me,
should my administration be approved of by yourself and the nation.
In taking a review of the whole of my official conduct, my own con-
science compleatly supports me in the justice of the measures which
I have pursued and adopted.”
With considerations of the highest respect and esteem I am Y.
Mo. Obt. Sert.
(Signed) ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States.
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:ALS 58]
HERMITAGE Novor 14th 1821
DEAR SIR Since closing mine of this days date * I have had the
pleasure to receive your favour of the 14* of September,” Doctor
Brunaugh who will hand you mine of previous date of to day, and also
this, as he goes by the mail Stage, cannot remain to permit me fully
to answer your letter at present—I can only observe for the present
that I am truly wearied of public life, I want rest, and my private
concerns imperiously demand my attention—It is true my duties
have been laborious, and my situation exposed me to heavy expense
which makes it more necessary that I should retire, to resusitate my
declining fortune, to enable it to support me in my declining years,
Doctor Brunough carries to you my resignation, which I hope you
will accept at as early a period, as your convenience will permit; I
have Just rec" a letter from Col" Walton of the 15* ult," which informs
me all things progress in harmony in Pensacola, Since the Spanish
officers has left there—and that the citizens appear happy under the
government as organized—
I am happy, that as far as you have considered the organization I
have given the Government and its administration by me you are
Satisfied—This next to my approving conscience, is most gratifying
to me, in all my administration I had an eye to Justice to all, and
protection of the Humble from the Tyranny, and oppression of the
powerfull & great, and to secure every individual in the rights secured
to them under the treaty,+had I have been aided in this by Judge
Fromentine instead of opposed, Col" Callava would not have had the
57 Answered post, p. 316.
58 Copy in LC (Jackson Lets. and Orders, Bk. L), and the first paragraph
printed in Bassett, (ed.), op. cit., III, 129.
59 No other letter of Nov. 14 found; the reference is probably to his letter of
resignation of Nov. 13 (supra).
60 Dated the 16th rather than the 14th of Sept., see ante, p. 164, n.
61 LC (Jackson Papers, Vol. 61).



FL OR I. D A T E R R I TO R Y 277
hardihood & temerity to have dared to have taken the papers in his
possession or refused to have delivered them on my order and—
demand—I shall at an early day fully answer your letter—I have
only time to add, that M** Jackson Experienced a serious illness in
Pensacola, from which she is recovered altho has not regained her
flesh She unites with me in a tender of our Sincere regard to M**
Monroe & yourself & family and believe me to be with great respect
yr mo, ob, Servt,
ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MONROE President of the U States—
P. S. In Justice to Colº G. Walton I must say that I have found
him a pleasant gentleman, man—and with application will become a
usefull officer—A–J—
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe President of the United
States Washington City D" Bronaugh
[Endorsed] 14. nov”—1821—Gen. Jackson offering his resignation.
respecting Judge Fromentin The papers taken by the Spanish gover-
nor in Pensacola Nov 14. 1821 Gen' Jackson
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
TO JOHN R. BELL
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:C)
ST AUGUSTINE Nov 15th 1821
SIR I send you my Talk for the Seminole Indians;* The state of
this City and my Family prevent me from delivering it in person—
I must do it by proxy.—It is plain and true enough, God knows,
but whether it will be politic to deliver it, I must leave to your Judge-
ment who will be on the Spot and can decide—
I send you the form, of Preliminaries of a convention *—I of course
submit it entirely to your discretion; as it is impossible to decide
unless at the meeting.
We have nothing new here—By last mail, after you left this, I
presume, I received a letter from Mº Calhoun calling me Super-
intendant of Indian Affairs—Ex officio I suppose, that is Acting
Superintendant—I should like to hear from you, and how the Indians
received my Talk—
Yours with respect &"
(Signed) W. G. D WORTHINGTON
Secy & Acting Governor of East Florida
JOHN R BELL Esq." Indian Agent for Florida
* Present. The meeting with the Indians did not occur. See post, p. 294.
* Present.



278 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:WD, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E *]
DEPMT OF WAR Nowy 16. 1821
GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON Nashville Tenn:
SIR, I have received your letters of the 17 * & 20th Sept,” the first,
containing a Copy of an unauthorized talk held with the Indians in
Florida by a Mº Dexter and Mº Wanton, the latter, a copy of a talk
held with them by yourself and a letter written by you to Gen!
M*Intosh.
The view which you have taken in relation to the Indians generally
and particularly of those in Florida, appear very correct. I entirely
concur with you that it is perfectly absurd to hold treaties with
those within our limits as they neither are or can be independent of
our government. This opinion has been frequently communicated
to Congress, and although they have not yet adopted it, I still hope
they will ultimately.
By its adoption, both ours and their interest would be advanced
and all of the objections which may be urged against almost every
Indian Treaty which has been made be then avoided. As it regards
the Indians in Florida, I can entertain no doubt, but that it would be
expedient to remove them entirely out of limits of Florida, for the
reasons you have assigned, and such also is the opinion of the President;
but he is of opinion that it would be improper for that purpose without
the sanction of Congress & a special appropriation to resort to force
or to incur any considerable expenditure.
Should there appear to be any prospect at the next session to
effect so desirable an object it will be brought before Congress. If,
however, nothing better can be done than to concentrate them in
Florida, the part which you propose, appears to me to be the most
eligible.
I have by the direction of the President appointed Cap" Bell agent
during your absence from Florida and Cap' Pelham sub agent to
fill the vacancy which has been occasioned by the death of M"
Pennieres. I enclose you a copy of my instructions to the former.
When I drew them up I had not your last communication, and was
not apprized of the extent to which Dexter & Wanton had carried
their assumption of power to act with the Indians, having at that
time only received some communications from them to Capt Bell
giving information in relation to the Indians; but even on those, I
did not doubt but they were unprincipled individuals, who ought
* Copy in LC (Jackson Papers, Bk. 61); printed in part in Bassett (ed.), Corr.
Jackson, III, 132.
** Ante, p. 205.
* Ante, p. 210.



F L OR I. D A T E R R ITO R Y 279
to be removed from the Indian Country. Your letter with its en-
closures leaves no doubt as to the correctness of this impression.
Mº Pennieres had no instructions from this Department to proceed
to the Havana to obtain any information connected with the discharge
of his duty; and I presume, he had come to that determination under
an erroneous view of his general instructions which directed him to
report such information as he might obtain on the cessions which
had been made by the Indians to the Spanish & English governments.
I have directed Cap" Bell to give Richards the appointment of
Interpreter which you recommend and the sum which you have paid
to him will be allowed. Since I received your last, Mº Brown to whom
you refer has called on me; and as I do not doubt from the high
manner in which you speak of him that he is well qualified for any
place connected with the Indian Department in Florida, I would
readily have conferred on him the appointment of Sub Agent if the
place had not been previously filled by Cap' Pelham.
I have &c
J. C. C.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xix)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 19 Nov. 1821
W.G. D. WoRTHINGTON Esquire Secretary of East Florida S” Augustine
SIR. In acknowledging the receipt of your Letter of the 28 Aug-
ust.” and its enclosures, with the subsequent documents marked in
the list accompanying your Letter of 9” October from A to P. I
have now barely to state with reference to the Report of the Com-
mittee of the City Council of St Augustine,” recommending the Sale
of certain public property in that place, that I am directed by the
President of the United States to signify to you his opinion, that there
is no authority legally competent to make such Sale but by virtue of
an act of Congress.
I am very Respectfully, Sir, your most humble and obedient Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
* Ante, p. 192.
* Ante, p. 200.



280 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 119:ALS)
St AUGUSTINE Nov 20th 1821—
SIR-Your letter of the 27. Ulto.” with its accompanying papers, I
had the honor to receive on the 13" Inst:-Mine of the 12* * will
shew that I had anticipated your wish respecting the papers of the
late Mr Peniers—
The Confidence which is reposed in me, by the Department over
which you preside, in considering me the Acting Superintendent of
Indian Affairs as specified in your favor before me; I will endeavour
to merit—
On the 26" Ult” I issued a Proclamation "respecting the meeting
with the Seminole Indians in the Alachua, to take place today—I
should have attended accompanied, as is therein contemplated; But
your letter before me seems to assign that Conference, to the Agent
Captain Bell, without intimating a wish, for the Superintendent to
attend; I inferred, there was, therefore, no necessity for my going
thither & my presence even if it were not obtrusive, would be a matter
of supererogation—However, Captain Bell called on me before his
Departure, & I promised to send after him, any Communications
which I might think useful to him—
I suppose the great & important meeting will be when we shall wish
to form the Treaty with them—This of to day, is a mere preliminary
matter—
With great consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HON” J. C. CALHOUN Secretary at War.
[Addressed] The Honble J. C. Calhoun Secretary at War Washing-
ton City [Postmarked] Sº Augustine 20 Novº Free
[Endorsed] Worthington. W. G. D. Sº Augustine, 20 Nov 1821,
relative to Mr Pénières papers relative to the meeting with the In-
dians, &c, &c
DAVID SHANNON TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC: Jackson Papers, Bk. 61: ALS)
PENSACOLA, Novr. 24 1821.
DEAR GENERAL, Nothing of interest has transpired at this place
since the date of my last”—We are getting along quite smoothely—
* Ante, p. 263
70 Ante, p. 272.
71 Not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 281
The system of Jurisprudence established by your excellency appears
to have an admirable effect. The defaulting debtor is compelled to
render to his creditor his due—the wrongdoer is brought to speedy
justice, and the felon and disturber of the peace and good order of
the community are adequately punished. Our court is resorted to
both by Spaniards and Americans, in which they all appear to have
the most implicit confidence. In short, all parties seem willingly to
submit to the silent but efficient operation of the law. I can say for
myself that since the date of that commission with which your Ex-
cellency has been pleased to honor me, no exertions on my part have
been wanting to justify that confidence which your Excellency ap-
peared to repose in me, and I have the vanity to believe that those
exertions have not been entirely fruitless, and that I have the good
fortune to possess the confidence of the citizens generally—to main-
tain and support which I have now two motives—for tho my own
pride of character would at all times form a strong inducement to
act with propriety, whenever the the reputation of your excellency
becomes at all identified with that of mine, I can say that so far as
the frailties of human nature will permit, your excellency shall be
shielded from censure on my account. I believe however that the
only objection ever made to my appointment as presiding justice,
was grounded on my want of age; an objection, which I hope I have
shown, in the discharge of my judicial functions, is in some measure
removed, by my long experience in the forum of Judicial proceedings.
We have a complete record of all all our proceedings which we will
be able to transfer to any court which may be substituted in our
stead under any new organization. The mode of our proceedings are
very summary—one debt of $1200 has been collected under execu-
tion in one month from the commencement of suit, and several
smaller sums with equal dispatch.
Before I conclude there is one subject to which I would beg leave
to call the attention of your Excellency—I mean my compensation
as presiding Justice of Escambia county. It is true the ordinance
of your Excellency allows me some fees; but these are found to be
entirely inadequate to compensate me for the labour and responsi-
bility attending my situation. The duties of my office require almost
the whole of my time, and I do not candidly believe I will be able to
realize more than $150. or $200. from the fees allowed. If, under
these circumstances, your Excellency could do something towards
procuring from the government an adequate and liberal compensa-
tion it, would be adding to the many obligations under which you
have already laid me. I am the more solicitous on this subject as
I find it will be impossible, if the Gov't does not make me some allow-
ance, (altho' my whole time is devoted to the service of the public)
for me to pay my expences out of the proceeds of my industry,



282 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
which is the only means I have of support. I would also suggest the
propriety of making my associates some allowance, who have served
the public faithfully, to the exclusion of their private business.--Do
be so good as to write me ea this subjeet, and let me know, your dis-
position one this subject.
Give my compliments to Mrs. Jackson and Miss Hays—I suppose
Andrew 7” has almost forgotten me—I hope, however, he attends to
his books—I see your enemies make some noise in the papers relative
to the Callava business; but the great body of the American people
cannot but approve of your conduct.—Accept, dear sir, my warmest
wishes for your health and happiness.
D. SHANNON.
GEN. AND" JACKSON.
|Addressed] His Excellency Andrew Jackson, Nashville, Tennessee
Mail, [Postmarked] Pensacola Nov. 27. 50
[Endorsed] D Shannon to G" Jackson Nov" 24* 1821 Answered,
5th Jany 182273
THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS (PENSACOLA) TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors:C]
COLLECTORS OFFICE [Pensacola], November 26. 1821.
HONBº SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
SIR, An impression is generally prevalent here, that a Revenue
Cutter will be employed on the part of the Florida Coast comprized
within this district, and that the Government will perhaps think
proper to make this port, the station for such vessel, and extending
her cruizing ground so as to embrace the district of Sº Augustine, or
East Florida, thereby including the Cape of Florida, and that part
of the coast which is at present the rendezvous of a number of in-
dividuals emphatically called wreckers: there are at present, as I am
informed by the Master of an American Vessel lately entered here
from that Coast, about forty sail employed in prosecuting that busi-
ness as a profession, the commanders of which openly own their in-
tention to continue on that ground untill they shall be ordered off by
the authorities of the U. S. of which they expressed themselves the
belief they should shortly have efficient notice: They will not probably
be allowed much longer to continue to find facilities in prosecuting
that business within the jurisdiction of the U. S. The property of the
vessels in that employ is for the most part said to belong to British
merchants.
72 Andrew Jackson, Jr., an adopted son of Governor Jackson.
78 Not found.



F L OR I. D A T E R R I TO R Y 283
At the request of an individual by the name of David Hall, I enclose
to you sundry letters in support of his desire to be appointed to the
command of the Revenue Cutter in case it should be deemed ex-
pedient to employ a Wessel as such, upon this Coast. M' Hall I am
informed has much experience in the navigation of the Gulph of
Mexico, and is well acquainted with the Coast of both the Floridas.
Some uneasiness exists here on the part of individuals holding
property, merchandise and Slaves, which was in this place at the time
of the cession; from the circumstance of the injunction that prevent
its removal hence to any other part of the U. States. Mº Lewis
informed me before leaving this, that he had represented in his com-
munications to your department, that the actual amount of property
commercially considered, remaining here, at that period, was very
inconsiderable and hardly of any importance. My own observation,
since arriving, fully confirms his remark—indeed the general impres-
sion in the minds of the commercial community in our Eastern Cities,
that was so predominant in May and June last, that this place
would be overstocked with supplies of every description, has resulted
in producing a contrary state, for the consignments here as yet been
very limited, and there is nothing like a general assortment of any
description of goods in the place, though most probably the present
absence of merchandise, will be followed in February or March next,
by an excess of abundance, which will doubtless prove injurious to
many individuals though eventually of advantage to the place.
The Surveyor M. Ch" Jenkins arrived here on Wednesday the 14.
instant, he called on me and in conversation stated he had been in-
duced to visit this place from information he had received, in reply
to the enquiry addressed by him to the Secretary of the Territory,
whether his presence here was indispensable; being informed that it
was, he had with much inconvenience to himself, undertaken the
journey. I entered, as minutely as was in my power into a statement
of the transactions at this office since the commencement of business,
laying before him the Books, and copies of the accounts as transmitted
to the Comptroller of the Treasury department to the 30" of Septem-
ber. M' Jenkins expressed himself satisfied that the journey might
have been very well deferred till such time as the decision of Congress
upon the amount of salary to be allowed the officers of the Customs
at this Port had been made known, and that as he could not decide
without that information whether he should permanently reside here,
it did not appear necessary that he should qualify, by taking the
requisite oaths and executing his Bond, he would therefore defer so
doing for the present, and should return to his residence in Georgia;
he left town on the afternoon of the 16” of Mr Scotts movement I am
altogether unadvised. My belief with regard to the performance of
the duties appertaining to the officers of the Customs at this port, is



284 T E R R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
that they can be fully discharged by one person, and that the com-
merce of the place will not, under its present prospects, for some time
to come afford employment for more, and barely a subsistance for
one, provided the salary at present allowed is continued.
In considering the appropriations of money that Congress have
from time to time, made, for the improvement of the Ports and har-
bours of our Country, a belief naturally arises, that our new acquisition
will receive attention on that score, in proportion to the advantages
to be obtained in improving the local situations by the expenditure of
requisite funds in the attainment of those ends which may at once sub-
serve the public interest and the local prosperity of the place. I ven-
ture therefore, Sir, to suggest for consideration the building and erect-
ing a Wharf at this Port; at present there is nothing of the kind, every
thing being landed on the open beach: the expense of such a work must
be considerable, the distance not being less than 180 or 200 yards; the
proper materials are found in abundance within the district though not
in the immediate vicinity, as the piles or supporters of the plat form,
must be a wood which the worms do not destroy.
I have not had the honor of receiving any communication from you,
since my arrival at this place; I beg Sir. you will receive the assur-
ances of perfect respect with which I am Your &" &"
Bay- No signature to this letter either.
JUDGE DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA: SD, Applications: C]
ST AUGUSTINE Nov' 29th 1821
SIR. The disease which visited this place during the last season
with such raging mortality, has happily subsided—Considerable con-
fusion has, and yet prevails here, among the several officers of govern-
ment as to their powers, and I feel confident that nothing less than the
timely interposition of Congress can restore harmony and order in this
place—I hope the subject will meet the early attention of Congress—
Gov. Jackson has written to Secretary Worthington giving him
authority to appoint a Clerk for the Federal court in E. Florida.
Under a belief that such an act would not be either legal or proper,
I feel it my duty to reject any that may be so appointed and shall
appoint a Clerk myself—If you should think otherwise on your advice
or direction I will act—If the President has not appointed and intends
to appoint commissioners to decide on the land titles of E. Florida—I
recommend to the government Greenbury A Gaither now residing
at this place, a gentleman of excellent legal knowledge from Kentucky
and whose standing, as a man of character, is unexceptionable—M*
Gaither speaks the French language and reads the Spanish with flu-
encey—



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 285
The laws of the U. S and reports of the cases decided in the Supreme
Court are much wanted and if you have the power to send them on to
the court here, you will greatly serve the province by doing so—
I have been much about in E Florida since my arrival here and hope
in a few days to send you a chart of S" John's river from its mouth to
Wolucia, five miles above lake George, which I have accurately ex-
amined, and will add remarks which may serve to give you some little
information as to the soil and products of Sº John's river—I should be
glad to receive some authority to appropriate some part of the public
buildings here for the court and Clerk's office, and to receive any in-
structions from your department which you may deem proper to give—
Permit me to enquire whether the President has fixed on the allow-
ance intended for the U. S. judge of E. Florida—If you feel any interest
in learning the state of this country as to its soil, products and navi-
gable rivers and the proportion of good and bad lands, I will endeavor
to give you such facts as may be relied upon”—
I am, with sentiments of high respect & esteem Yr. ob" Servt
Wm P DUVAL
HoN' J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
|Addressed] Hon” John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] St Augustine 4 Decº Free
[Endorsed] Duval W* P. Sº Augustine–29 Nov 1821. Recd 22
Decº app" of a Clerk for the Court in E. Florida—recommends Green-
bury A. Gaither as land Commr—&"
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ABRAHAM EUSTIS
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR November 30” 1821.
LT. COL. A. EUSTIS Comdg S*Augustine
SIR, The several communications of yourself " and Captain Bell
with the Acting Governor of East Florida together with Captain
Bell's to this Dept "relative to the public buildings &" at S*Augustine
have been Submitted to the President,” who directs the following
distribution of the same, and of the lots in the Town of Saint Augus-
tine as far as they are enumerated be made among the civil and
military Departments.
Cevil Department.
1* The old Government House with the Garden and lot annexed.
2" The House adjacent thereto, denominated the “Council Room”
which was formerly occupied by the Spanish troops.
* No reply found. See post, p. 300.
75 Ante, p. 273. See also post, p. 307, n.
7° Ante, p. 197.
7 Ante, p. 224.



286 T. E. R. R. I TO RIA L P A P E R S
3* The House and lot occupied by the Spaniards as a Hospital.
4* The building and lot known by the name of the Custom House.
5* The Old Spanish Guard House adjacent thereto.
Military Department.
1". Fort St Marks with all the Space immediately around it, recog-
nized by the Spanish authorities as public property.
2" The building and lot called the “monestary” or S' Francis barracks.
3"The building adjacent thereto—a few steps South, formerly occupied
as Barracks by the Spanish troops.
4* The two buildings denominated “The National School” and flour
Store” with their lots.
5* The magazine and the Space around it, recognized as publick
property by the Spanish Government.
All other Houses and lots handed over by the Spanish authorities
as public property, and not included in the distribution to the Civil
Department will remain in charge of the military.
You will cause the Buildings and lots allotted to the Civil Depart-
ment, to be put in possession of the Acting Governor as soon as
convenient after the receipt of this letter.”
J. C. C.
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA: SD, Applications:ALS)
NASHVILLE November 30" 1821.
SIR, I have the honor herewith to enclose (as confirmatory of the
sentiments of the people of West Florida upon the subject of the next
Governor for that Territory) petitions marked N** 1, and 2.
The signatures of the most respectable of both the American and
Spanish part of the population accompany these petitions—proving
the voice of the people to be in favor of Co' King. If the wishes of
the people of Florida are to be consulted in the nomination to this
appointment, I trust it will be viewed as a consideration of much
weight when connected with the many more urgent claims of the
Gentleman named, and that you will do justice to his injured char-
acter.—
I am Sir with great respect Yº Mo Obt & Humble Servant
ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MONROE Esq." President of the U States
[Addressed] To His Excellency James Monroe President of the
United States -
[Endorsed] 30. Nov. 1821. Jackson Andrew. Encloses two
Petitions from the Inhabitants of West Florida in favour of Col."
William King as Governor.
78 Answered post, p. 306.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 287
[Enclosure No. 1:DS]
Recommendation of William King by Inhabitants of West Florida
[No date]
TO JAMES MONROE President of the United States.
The inhabitants of West Florida respectfully represent—That
Whereas under a Territorial Government, the happiness and pros-
perity of its people must be greatly dependant on the virtue, intelli-
gence and capacity of its Governor, and having been informed of the
intended resignation of His Excellency Major General A. Jackson,
We beg leave most respectfully to recommend as his successor, Col:
William King, late of the Army of the United States. To most of us
Col: King is personally known; during the occupancy of this Country
in 1818 by the American Government, Col King exercised the Civil
and Military Authority of this Province, in the administration of
which, his conduct was marked by a zeal and fidelity for the interests
of his Country, and a sense of justice and propriety, which has secured
to him the confidence and respect of those, over whom he presided.
He is the choice of the People—He possesses those qualifications,
and those principles, which will enable him to discharge his duties,
with honor to himself and to the Country.
H: M. Brackenridge Jeremiah Paschal
Rich" K. Call John Lawrance
Abraham Crosby James Johnson
Peter Mullen M S Taylor
James Kehoe Jesse Hering
S. E. Bentheim James Jenkins
Paul Savage Thomas Harris
Patrick Gavin Thomas Sojar
Morris Pendergast Julius Pescay
Lewis C. Guthman Joseph Bays
Robt. Breen James Mallett
John Nickolls Jason Whitney
John West John Wheeler
Peter Fisher A. Javech
J. S. Howell S" Patuzzo
Elijah Birk David Rowland
L. L. Hamilton John Brown
Henry Finch John Jerrison
H W Rathbon John Jerrison Jr
Mark Hartley
George Donnelly
Richard Mount
James Carendene
Charles Ewing
Joh F. Banister
James B Starr
John E. Lee



288 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Daniel Cotton C. Nicholas
Wm. Mitchell Thompson Kerr.
[Endorsed] Sundry Inhabitants of West Florida Recommend Col”
William King as Governor.
[Enclosure No. 2:DS 79]
Recommendation of William King by Inhabitants of West Florida
Peter Alba
Joseph E. Caro
Franco Bonal
Desiderio Quina
D Shannon
Jno. Miller
S. Soher
Diego Reyes
Silvestre Gomez
Jose Gomez
John FitzSimons
J McG Miller
Austin Brown
F. H. Nisbet
Antonio Perez
V* Batlongues
Juan Brosnaham
Salvador Ramirez
Luis Sansa
Ygnacio Florez
Baltasar Anteno
Pedro Mendosa
Fran” Slopis
Samuel Davis
Charles G Foster
S. J. Price
William Mathews
W. M. Read
Henry Ahrens
Edw Pickook
C. Brown
S Hartmann
Wm Welch
Edw Crawford
Hudson Hughes
[No date)
W. Champlin
Benj Wyman
Jesse Ferguson
Jno Haff
Jose Fassiola
William Dougherty
Arthur Collin
Peter H. Steele
Thomas Colburn
Wm. Lear
Charles Doane
Cha" Beeler
Jeremiah Ingraham
Avril
Goubit
J. Bassilliet
J* Louis Bugoson
Geo Bullock
Wm. Mims
James Tummell
Jeremiah Lordan
David C. Ballard
Tela N Suarez
James Quin
Daniel Lamb
Patick Bigler
Jn" Jerrison Jr
Paul M"Clean
Wm. Woodward
James Sikes
Thomas Ellsworth
Patrick Gavin
Jn" Rees
Manuel Durante
Manuel Carrillo
79 The text of this recommendation, which is in Spanish and English, has been
omitted. The English version is identical with the preceding recommendation.



FLORIDA. T E R R I TOR Y
289
Jº B* Cazenave
H. Michelet
Edoin Sena
Lorenzo Bru
Jose Roch
Sebastian Barrios
Cortez Suwateo (?)
Agustin Perez
Ant" Salazar
Octavius Mitchel
Sebastian Caro
Thom” Posse L. Rioboo
Benito Garcia
John Campbell
Antonio Sanchez
Gabriel Hernandez
John W. D. Voorhies
E. B. Foster
Nath' Bissell
T Brownjohn
John Austin
Oliver Clark
J. C. Farmer
H F M*Kenny
B. Middleton
J Bunal (Bunce?)
Ciriaco Lopez
Guillermo M*Voy
Carlos Baron
Annunzo Bernardo Paryas (?)
Lorenzo Bru
Manuel del Barco
John Coppinger Connor
George W. Barkley
Charles Le Baron Jr
D. Watson
A. Gordon
Wim Underwood
Tho" Beeler
H de Grand-Pré
John Theyson
Jonathan W Robinson
W Rowdon
Franco Tonard
Jose Maura
301867–57–20
Edward Greeffin
Joseph C. Bates
James Daumas
Samuel Williams
Elihu Smith
Danil Toxell
Georgee Wilson
Legrand
Thomas L. Wheeler
Charles Gallaher
Thomas A. Skinner
Manning Carpenter
Nathaniel Brown
Roland Clapp
Miguel Quigles
Luis Daunoy
J" dela Rua
Yfiigo Garcia
Franco de Pºº Palmés
F. Moreno
Juan Garreta
Cayetano Garcia
Fran” Gomez
Dom" Laura (?)
Joseph Bonifay
Ant” Molines
Ant” Pancia
Ygnacio Maura
Franco Colein
Bicente Vicent
Mis' Hernandez
Man' Domingo
Celestino Gonzalez
A. M*Rae
Luis Gagmet
Wa” L Hannum
Joseph Gonzales
Pedro Yniestra
Simeon Norris
Fran" Bain (?)
por Sº Manuel Gonzalez nosaben
firmar—Manuel del Barco
David Avery
José Ortiz
Benjamin Nettles



290 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
jh Wrigmand Juan Malagosa
Beltran Serchet Louis Christopher
Jules Pescay Francisco garryoa
Luis Maestri Eugenio Ant” Sierra
Pedro Olivero Jose Sierra
R S Cannaulieo Henry Riley
J. Delazzeris Rich" Truman
Juan Barela William Gormley
David Hall Joseph Noriega
Jose de Vieja Thos Mitchell
|Endorsed] Sundry Inhabitants of West Florida Recommend Col."
William King as Governor
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO W. LEAR
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Bk. Z]
GEN" PosT OFFICE DEPT (November 1821]
Mr W LEAR. M. Contractor Pensacola W. F.
SIR I have yours of the 23% ult.” The price now paid for the
mails transport, between Claborne & pensacola, we think a liberal
one—but we shall not object to ollowing twenty dollars a trip—if you
don’t wish to continue you will give reasonable notice of your intention
to the post master Claibone who will in that event employ a suc-
cessor.—We Cannot offer any thing extraodinary for a stage con-
veyance.
Your obt. Sº
R. J. M. Jr si
N B. The price you demand of $1.500 is unreasonable and more
than we pay any where for similar services.
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF WEST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
[November, 1821]
To the Hon. the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States,
in Congress Assembled, at Washington—
Your Petitioners, Citizens of West Florida most respectfully beg
leave to represent; That they settled on vacant Lands in the said
Florida, early in the year one thousand eight hundred and nineteen;
that they have made valuable and extensive improvements and are
still in the actual occupation of said Lands; that the taking possession
30 Not found.
* Return J. Meigs, Jr., Postmaster General, 1814–1823.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 291
and the occupying of Lands, in a Country, then a wilderness, met the
full and entire approbation of the Authorities in Florida; and that
your Petitioners expected to have received from the said Authorities,
each 800 Arpens of Land (which is the usual quantity allowed to an
actual settler by the Colonial Laws of Spain) had the Country not
been ceeded and surrendered to the United States—But since the
change of the Sovreignty of the Country, your petitioners look for-
ward to the bounty of Congress, in expectation that their hopes will
be as amply realized, as they would have been from the Government,
under whose auspices their rights originated; When your petitioners
reflect on the relief granted to others, similarly situated, in Missouri,
Mississippi and Louissiana States, they have the most sanguine
expectations that they will be rewarded for their toil and the diffi-
culties encountered in the settlement of a new Country by the Govern-
ment of the United States extending to them the same, wise, just and
liberal course of policy—
Your petitioners by recuring to the various Acts of Congress which
have been passed on the subject of public Lands, not only in the
States above named, but in that portion of Florida west of the Perdido,
find that Congress have invariably Granted to each actual settler
(who inhabited or cultivated a tract of Land on or before the day of
the final evacuation of the Spanish Authorities therein) a Donation of
Six hundred and forty acres of Land including their improvements:
the acts refered to, without reciting their dates, are embraced within
the period of time, from 1798 to 1819 and are worthy the attention of
future generations, as the Acts of a magnanimous and generous
Nation—
Your petitioners further represent; that when we established our-
selves, in this Section of Country it was a Wilderness; and instead of
the Government of the United States loosing by your petitioners
being confirmed in their Titles, the Interests of the Country have
been greatly promoted by our establishments; thereby creating in-
ducements to others to purchase and settle in the Country—
Your Petitioners having full confidence in the justice of their claims,
and reasonableness of their solicitations most respectfully pray that
Congress will make such provision by a general Law or such special
Acts of relief, as will embrace their cases and place their claims on a
similar footing with those, who in similar situations have preceeded
your Petitioners—
All which is most respectfully submitted by your petitioners and
as in duty bound will ever pray—



292 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
WEST FLORIDA November 1821—
Elijah, H, Holmes Jesse Fulton
Right Coley J. Bowen
Seth Boyoyette A. Malloy
Jonas Matthews John Kunly
Jones Cobb B. Nettles
James Crabb N. Parker
James Law A. Parker
Tho" Moore Charles Campbell
John Snowden Joseph Folks
N. Hawthorn Charls Ivy
Paul Law Allen Moore
James Snowden Henry Potts
Daniel Malloy John M*Coll
Joel Bowen Edw' Campbell
A. Black Benjamin Wyman
Ja" Brewster
[Endorsed] Florida Citizens of West—settlers on Vacant Land
Jany 24–1822 Refº to Commº" on Public land Moore Ala 15.24.
Pub. Las 82
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:LS)
PENSACOLA December 1* 1821.
SIR/ Since 1 had the honor to address you, * nothing very material
has occurred except the arrival of the Hornet Capt." Henley “bringing
in the armed Brig Centinella of 18 Guns captured by him as Pirates;
Judge Fromentin having given his opinion that he could not take
cognizance of the case, I had no doubt that I could myself take cog-
nizance of it, as in a case of Piracy which was tried before Gov" Callava
referring the sentence & the evidence to the Capt" General for his
approbation—but as they could only be tried here by the Laws of
82 House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 181. The committee reported on Mar. 19,
1822, a bill providing for the recording and examining of titles and claims to
lands in the territory of Florida (ibid., p. 366). But the Senate had instructed
its Committee on Public Lands, on Dec. 31, 1821, to report on this subject, and
its bill (No. 62) was passed on Apr. 17 (Senate Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 47,
49, 160, 163, 249, 254, 264, 266, 277, 281–282, 374–375, 379). Receiving the
Senate bill on Apr. 18, the House referred it on the next day to its Committee on
Public Lands, which reported it on Apr. 26 with amendments, with which the
Senate concurred on May 7 (House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 469, 470, 494,
595, 596, 597, 600, 602, 604). The act was approved May 8, post, p. 424. See
also post, p. 296.
* Ante, p. 265.
* John D. Henley.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 293
Spain and the instructions of Capt." Henley required him to carry his
prizes where they could be adjudicated by the Laws of the United
States—they must therefore necessarily be carried elsewhere.
I have learned that a decision has been made by the President in
relation to the Public buildings at St Augustine, in which, from
being similarly situated, the Civil Officers here are also interested—
Gen' Jackson had previously given a similar opinion, & would have
taken possession of the Government House here but that he was un-
willing to remove his family from the house which they had occupied
previously to the surrender of the Provinces. By this decision, while
I am administering the Gov' of West Florida, I am entitled to occupy
the Government House which was intended for and always has been
the residence of the Governors of the Province. But it being at pres-
ent occupied by Eight Officers to whom it was given up by Gen' Jack-
son and being in the immediate vicinity of the Block houses where the
Troops are quartered, and fronting on the only ground near the
City which is suitable for a parade; for these reasons, as well as to
save a considerable sum to the Government which would otherwise
be expended in procuring Quarters for the Officers, while at the same
time they would be dispersed through the Town, I have thought proper
not to break thro’ the arrangements made by Gen' Jackson on this
subject, but to follow the course which he had adopted in this respect
and which I hope and believe will be approved by the President; I
have therefore rented a house for my family at Fifty dollars per month
which (considering the high rents of this City) will not I presume be
deemed extravagant—and if any difficulty should arise in the adjust-
ment of the account with the War Department, I presume it may be
obviated by the Secretary of the Department in his instructions to
the Quarter Master.
I have not yet been informed of the amount of salary which has
been affixed to my Office, but repose with confidence on the liberality
of the President in this respect, but I would beg leave respectfully to
suggest, that acting as Governor I have been compelled to incur ex-
penses, which, as Secretary, would have been avoided, and which
indeed have necessarily been greater from succeeding in Office a man
so liberally hospitable in his manners and of so extensive reputation
and acquaintance.”
I have the honor to be with the highest consideration Yr Obdt
Servt.
GEO. WALTON
To THE HONORABLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
Washington City
[Endorsed] Geo. Walton—
* No reply found.



294 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 242:ALS)
St AUGUSTINE Decº 4. 1821.
SIR-The Indian Agent, Capt" Bell has returned here—He re-
ported to me on yesterday that the Indians were out hunting & he
failed in assembly them in the Alachua, as he had intended on the
20* Ulto.—I despatched after him a Talk & preliminary Articles of a
Treaty, with a letter, but they did not reach him—However I will
enclose you copies of them by next mail—So that you may see my
views of the subject—
On Indian affairs, I have only to observe, that, the best opinion I
can obtain from them, is that they are willing to be Concentrated in
Florida, and that they would prefer the place assigned for them, to
be where their principal Towns are—which would include a territory
of about 80 miles long & 50 wide—and is the best part of Florida—
It is said, they never will consent to go up amongst the Creeks—They
will assume no hostile attitude, against the United States, no matter,
what Course they may adopt respecting them—But if they are ordered
up amongst the Creeks, they will take to the bushes—
Not having yet been amongst them, I cannot say if this be abso-
lutely correct—I feel it my duty to lay it before you—My own opinion
as expressed to you in my letter of the 12* Ult” ” remains still un-
changed—Should I feel it necessary to make some disbursements as
Superintendent, of Indian affairs, be pleased to point out to me the
fund whence they are to be drawn?—
With distinguished consideration &c
W.G.D WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HON” J. C. CALHOUN Secretary at War
[Addressed] The Honb" J. C. Calhoun Secretary at War Washington
City [Postmarked] St Augustine 4 Decº Free
[Endorsed] Worthington W. G. D. Sº Augustine, 4 Decº, 1821.
relative to Ind" Affairs in Florida, to funds. Mr Worthington—
answered **
* Ante, p. 272.
*7 Mar. 11, 1822, directing him to incur as little expense as possible in the
management of Indian affairs, and to forward information as to those already
incurred (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
.



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 295
PRESENTMENT OF THE GRAND JURY OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Applications:C)
[December 6, 1821]
At a District Court held in the City of Sº Augustine Territory of
East Florida, on the 5* Decem" 1821.
The Grand Jury of the District Court of the United States for the
District of East Florida before they retire from the duties with which
they have been honored beg leave to present to his honor Judge Duval,
their welcome to this Territory. And to assure him that they with
truth felicitate their fellow Citizens and the Territory at large upon
his accession to the bench of this Court Convinced that under his
administration of the laws of the Territory every right which belongs
to them as Citizens of the American Republic will be secured to them.
They present to this Hon: Court the inconvenience to which this
Province is subjected, in the establishment and Continuation of the
Spanish laws. When it is taken into Consideration that those laws,
are inconsistent with the principles and genius of a republican Govern-
ment, that they are unknown, having never been officially promulgated
or published within, this territory And when it is also further
thdersteed Considered that the Spanish population within this
territory does not exceed the number of two thousand souls (Slaves
encluded) and that number daily decreasing by their removal to the
Island of Cuba, It must be admitted that every rational hope which
may be entertained of the early prosperity of this territory must be
founded upon the population wealth and enterprise & industry of the
American States: That population then whose earliest impressions
and most cherish" Ideas of Civil liberty & Government have grown
and been matured under the influence of American institutions, is the
population whose good will is to be conciliated in the formation of
any system of laws for the future Government of this Territory under
these impressions the Grand Jury beg leave to represent that the
adoption of the principles of the common law as they exist in the
several states will be more congenial to their feelings and habits and
best calculated, to preserve the blessings of liberty to themselves and
their decendents. They further represent as a greivance and as a
Serious injury to the Commerce of the United States the Situation
of the Florida Keys that Harbours Contiguous thereto have become
the resort of wreckers and pirates and would respectfully suggest to
the General Government the propriety and utility of stationing a
naval and military force in that neighbourhood, for the purpose of
suppressing those disorders.
They also represent the absolute necessity of establishing a light
house near the entrance of this port, they are impressed with the
belief that it may be the means of saving much property jeopardised
for want of such an establishment.



296 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
They also further represent as a grievance That there are no funds
in the province and no means whereby the expences of the territory
can be defrayed That as all charges of Government; were paid from
the Royal treasury of Spain there existed previous to the Cession no
necessity for taxes and Consequently none were laid
This grand Jury therefore trusting in the liberality and wisdom of
Congress hope that a fund may be placed at the disposal of the proper
officers sufficient to defray all the expences of the territory.
The grand jury request that this Hon: Court will forward this
presentment to the President of the United States to be laid before
Congress. That such measures may be adopted by that Honb body
as in their wisdom they may determine upon.
D COPP foreman
St AUGUSTINE East Florida Decº 6** 1821
A Copy Atteste JAMES STINGLE C D C E F *
[Endorsed] 6 Dec 1821 rel to Judge Duval Presentment in which
Judge Duval is complimented at St. Augustine Judge Duval
-:
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF WEST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS)
[Referred December 7 1821]
To the honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States in Congress assembled,
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth,
That they are settled upon vacant lands within the limits of the
territory of Florida, and were in the possession and the actual occu-
pancy of the places they still cultivate, prior to the change of the
Flags therein by Spain and the United States;–
And your Petitioners do further represent to your honorable bodies,
that when they settled upon their respective plantations in Florida
their settlements met the approbation of the Spanish Authorities
therein, and that your Petitioners were encouraged to believe that each
one of them would have been allowed by the Spanish Government to
remain in the use and occupation of their plantations, and be finally
entitled to 800 arpens of land (which is the usual quantity allowed to
an actual Settler by the Spanish colonial laws) had the Floridas not
been ceded and surrendered to the United States; But since the change
of government there your Petitioners have no other security for their
places than the pleasure of the Congress of the United States, which
they hope and trust will be as just and liberal in behalf of the under-
signed as it has been towards the actual settlers heretofore in the
Mississippi, Louisiana, and Missouri.-
85 Clerk, District Court, E. Fla.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 297
In recurring to the various acts of Congress, which have from time
to time been passed for the adjustment of the land claims throughout
the States above named, as well as in that portion of West Florida
lying west of the river Perdido, your Petitioners find that Congress
have invariably and uniformly granted to each actual settler, (“who
inhabited or cultivated a tract of land on or before” the day of the
final evacuation of the Spanish authorities therein,) a Donation of
640 acres of land including their improvements. And your Petitioners,
being unable to discover any difference in the merits of the claims of
actual settlers east of Perdido river, and those west thereof which have
been respected by Congress from the year 1798 to April 1813, have
a right to expect that similar acts of relief will be extended to them in
like cases; not only because they have obtained under the Spanish
Jurisdiction similar inchoate titles to their places; but because they
believe, that Congress will, on account of the thin and sparse popula-
tion of the Floridas at present find it sound policy to hold out liberal
encouragement to actual settlers, to induce them to remain upon the
soil they occupy in order to strengthen the physical force of the
country.
Your Petitioners, having full confidence in the justice of their
respective claims, and of the reasonableness of their solicitations most
respectfully pray that Congress will make such provisions by a
general law, or special acts of relief, as will embrace thier cases, by
placing their settlement claims upon the same footing as have been
accorded to all actual settlers in similar circumstances in the above
named States and Territories;
And as in duty bound your Petitioners will ever pray.
James Pendleton Tho' Thresh
Allaway Roach Wedder Hogg
Henry ONeal Benjemin Hogg
Thomas Bradley James Hogg
his Peter Wilison
Drury X Manning Robert maning
mark Jephtha gilbert
Andrew Mitchel Josep White
Joseph W. Hall Jonas Mathis
his George W. Blake
Levi X Manning Wiliam Fransis
mark Daniel Ellis
his his
Benjamin X Manning James X Manning
mark mark



298 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
[Endorsed] Florida Petition of Sundry Inhabitants of Florida
Decº 7–1821 Refº to the Committee on the Public Lands Gab. Moore
19. 7. Pub. Lºs 89
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC:Jackson Papers, Bk. 61:LS)
PENSACOLA 10th Decº 1821
MY DEAR GENERAL I forward to you by this mail two communica-
tions (containing in all 17 pieces) from M* Worthington—All accounts
received here from E. Florida represent the people of that Territory
as highly dissatisfied with the state of affairs there. I fear that, that
fellow Forbes has too much influence with Mº Worthington. I regret
extremely it was not in your power to visit St. Augustine previous to
your return to Tennessee; had you done so, the present unpleasant
state of things would never have existed—The correspondence
between M* Worthington & Capt" Bell" does not, in my opinion
reflect much credit on either of those Gentlemen.—
The Nashville Whig of 7” Nov. announces your arrival at your
Seat in Tennessee on the 4” of that month. I take it for granted
that since your arrival at home, you have been busily engaged in
arranging your papers preparatory to Dº Bronaugh's visit to Washing-
ton City. I most ardently and sincerely hope, that General Jesup
will be in Washington before the Doctor leaves there—Although the
Gen'in a conservation with me, expressed himself, as warmly attached
to you, yet I cannot but say that I have my doubts—his visit to this
Country I view as somewhat extraordinary. I am well aware of his
devotion to M'. Clay and Mº Crawford—I am decidedly of opinion that
Mº Adams cannot be elected President of the United States, and in
my humble opinion, You are General, the only man in the Nation,
who can thwart the views of M* Crawford.—Let it be Known that
you are a Candidate for the Presidency of the United States, and the
descendents of those men, who, by their acts, emancipated us from
the yoke of George Third, will rally around you—The agriculturists
of the Nation are decidedly in your favor. I touch this subject with
regret, because I am well aware of your reluctance to be even considered
as a Candidate for that appointment—My father fought and shed his
blood in the cause of the Revolution and as his only descendant, I
cannot reconcile it to my feelings to see such a man as Mr Crawford,
** House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 27.
* See ante, p. 214, et seq.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 299
a man whom I believe to be destitute of all those principles which
ought of right to belong to the Chief Magistrate of the greatest
nation in the world, at the head of this Republic. If common rumor
is to be believed, the present Chief Magistrate of this Country is
governed in a great measure by M. Crawford—If this be the fact, a
few months more & I shall be permitted to retire from Office, for
I feel satisfied that the Representation from Georgia, if not openly,
will secretly be opposed to my receiving any Appointment from the
Gov't of the U. S. in the Floridas.-
The enormous expense incurred in removing my family to this
Country & the uncertainty of my drafts on Government being paid
immediately, renders my situation extremely unpleasant, but I will
endeavour to think and act like a Roman of the Augustan age, who
said “let a crushed world tumble on him, and he would view the
ruins undismayed”—
I have endeavoured to follow strictly the example set me by yourself
while in the exercise of the Gov" and also by your letter of instruc-
tions,” in consequence of which, I am inclined to believe that the
administration of the Government has given general satisfaction. I
have exercised the Gov" with energy & at the same time I trust,
with moderation. That Sapient Judge (Fromentin) but rarely crawls
out of his shell—the lashing given him by Nicholas a few weeks since
I think has put him down forever, even in Pensacola—
I feel satisfied that I shall have the pleasure of receiving a com-
munication from you next mail.
I have the honor to be with the highest consideration—yr obdt Servt
GEO WALTON
TO HIS EXCELLENCY ANDREW JACKSON Nashville
[Endorsed] George Walton to Gen' Jackson 10" December 1821
JUDGE DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE. Decº 10th 1821
DEAR SIR In a letter which I had the honour to adress to you,
lately from this place,” Greenbury A. Gaither. was mentioned as a
gentleman well qualify” to act as a commissioner, in setling, the land
claims in This province—Edmund Law Esq who may be personally
known to you, will accept of the appointment. Also as a commis-
* Ante, p. 229.
** Ante, p. 284.



300 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
sioner for the same purpose and I hope he may meet the approbation
of The President and yourself
Mº Bird the Attoy for the U States died here, with yellow fever, I
have Appointed, M* Gaither Attoy pro tem as it was necessary to
have some Gent" of legal knowledge, to attend to the interest of the
United States
Mº Wºº M-Gibson a gentleman of high Standing from South
Carolina, has lived here for some, time & would discharge the duties
of Attorney for the United States with ability and integrity—I bring
these Gentlemens pretentions before you because they are residents
of St Augustine—and are valuable citizens—
I have the honour to remain Your Ob" Sev"
Wm P. DUVAL
HON” J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
[Addressed] Hon" John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] St Augustine 11. Decº Free.
[Endorsed] W" P. Duval St. Augustine 10 Dec 1821 Rec" 31*
Recommends Greenbury A. Gaither, and Edmund Law as Commiss”
for settling land claims, and W" M. Gibson for Attorney—
JOHN RODMAN TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters.:ALS)
Custom house ST. AUGUSTINE 11" Dec 1821
SIR. The Comptroller of the Treasury having referred me to the
department of State for instructions on the subject of the Slave Acts,
I beg the favour of an answer to the following questions:–
By the Act of March 2° 1807. 7" & 8* Sections,” Slaves imported
into the United States, previously to the 1* Jany 1808, are permitted
to be transported from one port to another in the United States, and
held to service or sold. Under the provisions of this act, and the act
in relation to the cession of the Floridas to the United States of 3°
March 1819. Section 2** May Slaves, whether imported into this
Territory either before or since the 1* of January 1808, be transported
from this territory, coastwise, into any of the States of the Union
there to be sold or held to Service?”
Some of the Spanish Inhabitants of this City are desirous of visiting
92 2 STAT. 428–429.
93 3 STAT. 524.
* Rodman was informed on May 16, 1822 that the interpretation of the laws
was a matter for judicial decision (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 301
the Havana, and wish to take with them their domestic Slaves, as
personal Servants, and to bring them back in a few months. I
presume there can be no objections to the taking of the Slaves away,
but I can find no provision in any of the Slave acts for their return.
I Should therefore be glad to know whether permission may be
granted, in these particular cases, to bring back to this Territory
domestic Slaves taken away with the owners, inhabitants of this
territory, to the Havana?”—
With great respect, I have the honour to be, Sir, Your ob" Servant
J RODMAN Collector of St Augustine
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] Rodman J. St Augustine, 11 Dec 1821 Recd 30th.
Slave acts.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix:ALS 98]
S* AUGUSTINE Dec. 11. 1821.
SIR-I now enclose you the balance of the papers in the case of the
Archives &c as promised in my letter of the 4. Inst.” marked. N*
9. 10 & 11 *—The papers to be returned are in safe keeping & await
Orders. The Spaniards have declined receiving them—I also enclose
you certain Tax Bills & various papers” respecting the pecuniary
embarrassments of this place. marked—A. B. C. D. E. F. G. H. & I.-
I have sent simular lists to Genl Jackson—
I have received not one cent of Public money since I arrived here—
no contingent fund & am, by my commission prohibited levying
Taxes—Yet living is dear & it cost me & my family to eat here a very
heavy expense—It has also cost me, money to repair, even in the
least expensive manner, the Government House for the accommo-
dation of the District Court of the U States, the keeper of the Archives
& Public papers & the Secretary & acting Governor of this Province—
Into which house, he has removed since the 1* Inst.—
As I have written officially to yourself & General Jackson, in the
Proceedings had here respecting the Archives & Documents, taken
* See post, p. 404.
* Extract printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 895.
27 Not found.
* Ibid., pp. 895–896.
* Present. The enclosures were also sent to Jackson in a letter of the same
date, which is largely repetitious in content (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, Ix).



302 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
into possession from the Spanish Ex Governor, Col Coppinger & the
Escrivana, Mr Entralgo—It seems to me premature & improper, to
follow Col Coppingers example, by publishing the Correspondence
&c in the News papers—However, if it should be deemed necessary
& proper, I have not a scintilla of doubt that our proceedings can be
vindicated from every aspersion which he or any one else has attempted
to cast on us—The papers in Ugarte's case shall be sent in my
next—
The Spaniards are leaving here; they cannot amalgamate with the
Americans—Their absence, I suspect will in a few years, prove to be a
benefit to the Province—We have done nothing to make them either
go away or stay—it is quite an affair of their own—
The sickness has ceased for this season—If it be not obtrusive may
I ask on what fund can I draw for a small sum of money, to reimburse
me the Contingent expenses I have incurred here, on account of this
Governmt—
I enclose also an account of the Commissioners Secretaries &
Clerks in the case of the Archives, I suppose $3 per day for each
Commission & $5. for each Secretay & Clerk will be a fair price, it
was an arduous task & during the yellow Fever—One of them died
with it—
With very distinguished consideration &c.—
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida—
THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] The Honble John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—Recd 30 Decº
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Recd., J 87:ALS)
NASHVILLE December 12* 1821
SIR I have the honor herewith to enclose you a letter just received
from Col Eustis, reporting the condition of the Public works and
1 Worthington declined to comply with Coppinger's request to arrest José
Ugarte, an officer of the Spanish commissary department who had irregularly
sold some powder, on the ground that cases could no longer be decided there
according to the military law of Spain, that the civil courts were open, and that
to confine the officer before judgment had been pronounced according to the
law was contrary to American legal principles (Worthington to Coppinger,
Sept. 17, 1821, NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 303
Buildings at St Augustine & St Marks.” Accompanying this letter
are alse several requisitions on the Ordnance Department, which
are also forwarded for your information.
I have also enclosed for your perusal a letter from Cap" Bell,” in
reference to some heart-burning which has unfortunately arisen
between him and the Civil authority at St Augustine, and requesting
my assistance in procuring [payment of his charge against the US
for] * services as Gov' of E Florida, which charge is reasonable and
just, and I have no doubt will be paid as soon as received by the
Secº of State.
I have expressed to Capt Bell my entire approbation of his conduct
so far as I have been able to judge of it, and my belief that he cannot
be injured by the malice of those civil Officers who are displeased
with his conduct as detailed in his letter.”
I am Sir with great respect Yº Mo obt Servant
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
[Endorsed] Jackson, A. &c. &c Nashville, 12 Dec 21 Enclosing a
letter from Col' Eustis relative to the public works & building at S*
Augustine with requisitions on Ord” Depart"; also a letter from
Capt* Bell in relation to the misunderstanding between him & the
Civil Authorities at S*Augustine.
GOVERNOR JACKSON TO JOHN R. BELL
[LC:Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. L]
NASHVILLE December 12* 1821
SIR, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of date Oct’ 6” last," and the accompanying account for extra pay
whilst you were in the performance of the duties of Secy of East
Florida with the powers of the former Go' thereof. I had heretofore
brought to the veiw of the Secº of State your services and requested
that a proper allowance should be made, compensating you service
and meeting whatever expences may have been incurred in the dis-
charge of those duties.” In order however that this subject may not
escape the attention of the Sec', I have transmitted your account to
him, and requested that it may be allowed and paid, it being both
reasonable and just.
2 Present.
* Ante, p. 245.
* Bracketed portion (brackets editorial) is torn from this letter; the missing
words are supplied from a copy in the file.
* Infra.
• Error for Oct. 8; printed ante, p. 245.
7 Supra.



304 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
The regret which I feel at the heartburning which has arisen between
you and the civil authority, does not lessen my approbation of your
conduct in securing the troops under you command in cumfortable
quarters and in using every means to free them from disease.
All the Public buildings of course belong to the U States, and next
to the Actg. Governor, who for the time being is entitled to occupy
one of them, the officers and Troops should have been quartered in
those Public buildings—After this (if to be spared) a house belonging
to the Public should have been appropriated as a Court House.: But
the Marshal is neither, nor was he ever more entitled to a Public
building than any other individual in the City. The Corporation of
the city ought to be indulged in a Public house if to be spared from
other public uses. In Pensacola I yielded the Govt House to the
military, and quartered the soldiers in the Block houses. The Judi-
ciary and Corporation rented a house for their Public purposes, and I
rented a house for myself. I therefore see nothing in your conduct in
this particular nor in any other, which I can condemn, nor do I
believe that you can be injured by the persecution against you.
Yº conduct as far as I am enabled to judge Sir, has been perfectly
satisfactory to me
I am Sir with great respect Yº Mo Ob' Servant
(Signed, ANDREW JACKSON
P. S. Leut Donelson * who is with me, tenders his grateful remem-
brance of your kindness and attention to him while at West Point.
(Sig, A. J
CAP* JoHN R BELL 4° Reg' of Ay
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO
GOVERNOR JACKSON
[LC:Jackson Papers, Bk. 61:LS)
PENSACOLA December 17* 1821.
DEAR GENERAL, The pleasure of acknowledging the receipt of your
favor of 13" November * is mine. Your friends here are highly
pleased that yourself and family have reached the “Hermitage” in
safety and they all feel highly delighted at the handsome and brilliant
reception given to you by the Citizens of Nashville and its vicinity.
Enclosed I forward to you by this mail, one private letter, and a
communication from Mº Worthington, in all seven pieces. I rejoice
that we have the promise of M* Worthington that the misunder-
standing which has heretofore existed at St Augustine is at an end.
* Andrew Jackson Donelson.
* LC (Jackson Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 305
Yesterday evening two Indians arrived at this place bringing the
enclosed communications * consisting of three pieces, from Doyle,”
Ne-a-moth-la, and Tus-ta-muck-e, and one from the Mulatto King
and two other chiefs. From indisposition I have been unable to
attend to this subject to day, but will endeavour to despatch it to-
morrow. After having a consultation with Judge Brackenridge, I
have resolved to send a Talk" to the Chiefs in reply to their letters,
which will be delivered to the runners tomorrow, and a copy trans-
mitted to you by the next mail. The purport of this talk will be, to
fix their confidence in what you have told them, and to disregard the
mischievous interference of meddling people; and at the same time
admonishing them to be careful not to mistake the meaning of your
words, which they have in writing. I have considered this hint in
some measure necessary, from my suspecting that they are disposed
to construe the question put by you as to the place where they would
like to be concentrated, as a promise that any place would be given to
them they should think proper to choose. I shall inform them that
in your absence, the Government of this Province is entrusted to me
and that of E. Florida, to Mº Worthington, and that we are both
instructed to repeat your words to the Red people.
I am at a loss to understand the meaning of the proposed Talks of
Mr Worthington and do not know the exact authority under which he
acts, unless it be by immediate instructions from the President,
which could hardly be the case, as such instructions would only come
thro, you. For myself I do not believe that I possess any powers
similar to those M. Worthington is about to exercise as ex officio
Indian Agent. If he act under your instructions, it does not appear
to me there is any thing like authority for holding “splendid Indian
Talks”—According to my understanding of your instructions he is
merely to make known to the Indians the Talk which you gave to the
Chiefs who visited you at this place, leaving it to themselves to as-
semble in Council, and send to you the result of their deliberations.
The Indians appear to be a good deal agitated and embarrassed. I
will advise them however to attend only to your orders. It appears
that M*Intosh has been stirring up mischief and I fear is the principal
cause of the uneasiness that prevails amongst those people.
Col. Fenwick informs me that Capt." Bell is under arrest & will not
be tried before the 25* of this month.
10 Not present.
11 Edmund Doyle, a former employee of the British Indian trading firm of
John Forbes and Co. at Prospect Bluff on the Apalachicola River.
12 Filed with this letter.
301867–57—21



306 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Capt." Call left here for New Orleans ten or twelve days since—
Enquire, of my good friend Capt." Easter” the cause of the Captain's
visiting New Orleans.”
I am dear General, Your most devoted & Grateful friend and
Servant— GEO WALTON
My respects to the Ladies & Capt Easter—No news of Callava–or
the Spanish officers—I feel satisfied, that Callava will not return to
Pensacola—If however he should return, rest assured, that your
instructions will be promptly executed—Fromentin is rarely seen out
of his house—He is a poor miserable creature—Yrs G W-
[Endorsed] From George Walton to General Jackson December
17t 1821
ABRAHAM EUSTIS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., E 74:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE, Decº 18th 1821
SIR-I have the honor to acknowledge your communication of the
30° Novº “respecting the distribution of the publick lots & buildings
in this City.
1* The old Government House, Garden & Lot were put into the
possession of the Acting Governor on the 13* ult.
2* The House adjacent thereto demoninated the “Council Room,”
is the same identical building with the “National School,” & is now
occupied by Capt. Bell's Company. I have directed the acting
Q* Masters to hire quarters for this company, there being no tents at
the station, & as soon as he has procured a building, the “Council
Room” shall be turned over to the acting Governor.
3* The House & Lot occupied as a Hospital shall be vacated by
the Military so soon as a suitable shelter can be procured for the sick.
4* The building & lot known by the name of the Custom-House.
On this lot there are in fact two distinct Houses; both of which were
formerly in the occupation of the “Contador”.-In the Inventory they
are called the “Treasury & Custom House”. –The latter is already in
the possession of the Collector. M' Rodman. The first floor of the
former is occupied by the Office & Store of the Ass' Commissary &
is Richard J. Easter.
14 Further information concerning events in Pensacola and W. Fla. during the
last months of 1821 will be found in letters from Walton to Jackson, Oct. 29,
Nov. 5, Nov. 12, Nov. 19, Nov. 26, Dec. 3, and Dec. 23 (LC, Jackson Papers,
Vol. 61). In the same place are letters to Jackson from other persons in Pensacola:
H. M. Brackenridge, Nov. 4, R. K. Call, Nov. 19, and John Mitchell, Oct. 24,
1821. Most of Walton's reporting was done to Jackson. Letters from Jackson
to Walton are dated as follows: Nov. 13, Nov. 17, Dec. 6, and Dec. 12 (LC,
Jackson Lets. and Orders, Bk. M). See ante, pp. 265, 280, 298.
1* Ante, p. 285.



F' L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 307
Q Master, & is supposed to be the only store in the place, in which
flour can be preserved. The second floor is occupied by myself &
family. I shall vacate it without delay, as soon as I can find a shelter
for my children.
5* “The old spanish guard house adjacent thereto,” is a part of
the first floor of the “Custom House” & is occupied by M. Gibbs, In-
spector of the Port, County Clerk &c as an office.—
Under the distribution to the military department in your communi-
cation, number 3° “The building adjacent to the Monastery a few
steps south,” is the same building number 4 denominated the “Flour
Store,” & is now occupied by Capt. Hobart's* Company. I propose
to convert this building to a military Hospital, so soon as I can cover a
sufficient portion of the Monastery to shelter the Troops.
The malignant fever, which has prevailed here, has destroyed nearly
all the mechanicks, & the soldiery has also suffered very severely;
which circumstances alone have prevented my carrying this arrange-
ment into operation before this period. I trust that the Quarter
Master General's Department will immediately be instructed to remit
funds sufficient to accomplish these objects.
I am most repectfully your humble Serv"
ABR" EUSTIS.
HoN. J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War—
[Endorsed] Eustis. A. &c S*Augustine, 18 Decº, 1821 relative to the
distribution of the public lots & buildings " in Sº Augustine, &c.
-
-
RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:C)
[December 18, 1821]
Resolutions in relation to the annexation of that part of Florida,
which lies west of the Apalachicola river.
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State
of Alabama in General Assembly convened, that our Senators in
Congress and our Representative in the same, be requested to convey
to the Congress of the United States, the anxiety which is felt by the
Citizens of this State, that that part of Florida which lies west of the
Apalachicola river, should be annexed to this State; And that our
Senators and Representative be instructed and requested as aforesaid,
1° William F. Hobart.
17 For Worthington's ideas on this dispute see ante, p. 247. He wrote to Jackson
about the matter on Oct. 31, 1821 (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 61) and to the
Secretary of War, Nov. 12, 1821 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 106). See also
ante, pp. 245, 272.



308 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
to procure the passage of a law, by which this desirable Object may
be effected.—
And be it further resolved, by the authority aforesaid, that his
Excellency the Governor of this State be requested to forward a Copy
of the foregoing resolution to each of our Senators and representative
with as little delay as possible.”—(approved Decem' 18" 1821.)
Executive Department, CAHAWBA 24 Dec 1821.
A true Copy from the original filed in this Department.
Js: J. PLEASANTS Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Resolutions of Alabama Soliciting the annexation of
West Florida to that State. January 24, 1822 received and motion
made to refer to a Committee appointed on same subject on 31* Dec.—
(motion not decided) January 29–1822 Motion to refer, considered,
and agreed to by the House Mar—1—1822 Refº to C. W. on Bill
N° 51 March 1. discº & ref" CW on bill 51.1° 29. & ref" as praya
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF WEST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS 20)
[December 27, 1821]
To the Honorable The Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States, the Petition of the Undersigned, citizens of West Florida,
respectfully represents:
That your Petitioners humbly apprehend there is no object more
essential to social welfare and to the maintenance and preservation
of civil liberty than a due regard to public Education; and accordingly
your Honorable Body has on all occasions, manifested a munificent
patronage to matters of that nature—
Your Petitioners farther represent to your Honorable Body, that
the peculiar properties of their City of Pensacola, its central location
in relation to the southern and Western sections of the United States,
the salubrity of its climate, and the amenity of its situation, render
it singularly suited to such purposes; and that the advantages already
recapitulated are not a little enhanced by those of a scite for the
construction of the necessary edifices, in the neighborhood of the City.
Your Petitioners farther represent that the scite aforesaid, commonly
known by the denomination of the “old English Fort” is the property
of the United States; that it is an eminence or more properly a chain
of Hills, rising about half a mile in the rear of the present limits of
the City to the North, and running thence back from the city in a
direction comprehending the intermediate points from North to
West; that the scite aforesaid as your Petitioners humbly conceive,
18 See post, p. 311.
1° House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 182, 197, 300.
** A Spanish version of this memorial is present and has been omitted.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 309
will be of no utility to the Government for any national purposes;
that it is extremely sterile and no wise valuable but for its elevation
and amenity—
Your Petitioners therefore, in order that the scite aforesaid may be
secured for the purposes aforesaid, so nearly connected with the
public welfare, humbly pray that your Honorable Body will pass an
Act, granting for the purposes aforesaid to the City of Pensacola, an
hundred Acres of the Land aforesaid, to be located by the Cabildo
or City Council—And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever
pray &c.
PENSACOLA, West Florida, December the 27* 1821—
J" de la Rua
Antonio Balderas
Pedro de Alba
Thom" Posse La Rioboo
Juan Innerarity
Manuel del Barco
Sebastian Caro
Jose Maina
Antonio Collin
Juan Suarez
Gabriel Hernandez
J: Sorbes
Luis Gagmett
Luis Maestre
Joseph E. Caro
Pierre Bertrand
John Keyser
Bartholome Bisquera
Manuel Gonzalez
M. Simon
pierre paul
Sebastian Aguilera
Ciriaco Lopez
Domingo Gomez
Juan Reymund
Millan de la Carrera
O. Mitchel
Diego Reyes
franºo Bonal
Jose Sierra
Manuel Durante
Bernardo Pargas
Lorenzo Bru
Jº Bonifay
H. Michelet
José Cap de Bo
Silvestre Gomez
Anty J" Guerol
Manuel Carrillo
Wm Saltonstall
José Camacho
Jose Balada
Jesse Ferguson
Sebastian Barrios
Ant” Ramis
Ramon Santiago
Antº Molina
Agustin Perez
Yñigo Garcia
Alfonso de Sala
Ygnacio Florez
Pedro Mendoza
Joseph Roch
Jose Peynado
Antonio Sausa
Anto Salazar
Francisco Garrio
Mariano Maldonado
Cayetano Garcia
thomas Vilaseca
Fran” Gomez
Fran” Bauve
F. H. Nisbet
Geo C. Tod
Antonio Peruz
Antonio Pol



310 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
benito Garcia
Baltazar Centeno
Mariano Pacheco
Manuel Martinez
Vizente Vicent
Pierre Moussion
Fran"o Beral
Ambrose Caro
Roland Clapp
Jose Fassiola
Andres Lino Lopez
Philibert
Jº Dubise
Juan Malagoza
Avril
Louis Christophe
Jose Biola
Salvador Ruby
Joaq." Barela
Eugenio Lavalle
Carlos Baron
Desiderio Quina
Manuel Dominguez
Ygnacio Maura
Fran” Tonard
V* Batlongue
Diego Barbier
Sebastian Garzon
jh Veigmand
Jn Bte Cazenave
RS Parmantier
C. Bradford
Julius Perez
Jose Marcostio
Jose Ortiz
Jose Santos
H de Grand-Pré
Carlos Lavallé
Saml Myers
Chas DeBrosse
John A. Rogers
Charles Dame
Martin Johnson
Wm M. Loftin
Cer Prudhomme
Franco Simon
Juan Gomez
Tomas S* Cyr
Jose Fernandez
Manuel Fernandez
Manuel St Cyr
Miguel Sougell
Louis Durant
Domingo Gonzalez
Fran” Slopis
Franco Ferrer
Julian Lavallé
E. Merlet
J. Noriega
D Torri
tomas Arrellano
Jose Escriga
fran" Rocheblave
Pierre Philibert
Celestin Phillibert
Fran” fernandez
Julian Benites
Franco Riera
Cayetano Reguera
Tomas Puch
Juan B” Ximenes
A. P. Philibert
Franco Moreno
Fran” Commyns
Pedro Senac
Manuel Bonifay
Felix Bonifay
Jose Danfort
Joseph Gagnet
John Ross
A. M*Rae
Salvador Ramirez
Eugenio Ant" Sierra
Domingo Lopez
François Philis
Franco de Stº Palmes
Celestino Serra
Vacino Serra
Tomas Commyns



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 311
Pablo Palmes Edouard Senac
Juan Brosnaham Wm Staple
Juan Perez Celestino Gonzalez
[Endorsed] Florida not presented to the House.”
RESOLUTIONS OF SPANISH CITIZENS OF WEST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
[December 29, 1821]
At a general Meeting of the ancient Spanish Citizens of West
Florida, convened according to public notice, at the House of A
Collins in the city of Pensacola, on the evening of Saturday the 29*
of December 1821—J. de la Rua Esq was requested to preside, and
H Michelet Esq appointed Secretary—The President opened the
meeting by explaining the purpose for which it was convoked, and
reading a Memorial to the Honorable the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives of the United States—The following Resolutions were then
unanimously adopted:
Resolved that the Memorial a translation of which has just been
read, to the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States, praying that no Act may be passed to annex this
Territory to the State of Alabama, but that a separate territorial
Government may be established therein, meets the cordial concurrence
of this meeting—
Resolved that after the Memorial aforesaid shall have received the
signatures of the ancient inhabitants, it be laid open to those of the
citizens of the United States, more recently domiciliated in the
territory—
Resolved that a Committee of three be appointed to wait on the
Honble. Elij. Fromentin with the request of this meeting, that in
quality of Commissioner, he will bear the Memorial aforesaid to the
seat of Government, and take such other measures therein as may be
necessary and proper—
Resolved that J de la Rua, J Noriega, & H Michelet, Esquires be
the said Committee—
Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions be signed by the President
and Secretary of the Meeting and attached to the Memorial—
Resolved that the thanks of the Meeting be presented to the
President and Secretary, and that the meeting do now adjourn—
J* DE LA RUA Pres'
H. MICHELET Secretario
JOSE NORIEGA
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 289, shows this petition was presented
on Feb. 23, 1822 and referred to the Committee on Public Lands. No further
action is noted,



312 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Enclosure:DS ºl
Memorial to Congress by Spanish Citizens of West Florida
[December 29, 1821]
To the Honorable The Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States, the unanimous Memorial of the Ancient Spanish
Citizens of West Florida, respectfully represents:
That a Petition as your Memorialists are advised, was presented
to your Honorable Body at some period of its last session, from certain
Persons within the State of Alabama,” praying that an Act might
pass to annex this Territory of West Florida to that State; a subject
the expediency of which is likely to be agitated in your Honorable
Body during the present session; and your Memorialists are moreover
apprized by an editorial article in one of the public Journals of that
State, that a Petition having the same object in view has already
gone forth also, from this territory signed by about Two hundred of
its inhabitants; a disclosure which has not failed to fill them with
surprise, because the publicity which is usual and proper on such
occasions was never given to the petition aforesaid; because it has
never received the approbation or concurrence of your Memorialists;
and because there is even reason to believe that some, and probably
not a few, of the Petitioners aforesaid, are not, nor ever were, as they
therein profess to be, inhabitants of this Territory.
Your memorialists farther represent unto your Honorable Body
that notwithstanding the natural and honest partiality which binds a
colonial settlement to the Parent State; and the mild and fostering
rule which the Mother Country even amid its greatest intestine
embarrassments, has ever exercised at least over this province; and
the seasonable return of constitutional liberty which had so recently
dawned on all the wide-spread dominions of the Spanish Monarchy,
re-opening to their view a long futurity of promise; they yet acquiesce
with cheerful resignation in the motives of public policy and of State,
which sundering forever their ancient connexions, have united their
destinies with those of the north American Confederacy; and if they
repine not at those events, it is because their confidence is implicit
in the liberal, and enlightened, and moderate, and paternal principles
of its institutions—
Among these your Memorialists are advised that the right of
Petition is distinctly recognised and guaranteed, and they are therefore
induced to introduce themselves on this occasion, to the notice of
your Honorable Body; that the right of self-government is funda-
” A Spanish version of this memorial, which is present, has been omitted.
* This was a memorial by the Alabama Constitutional Convention presented
to the Senate on Feb. 22, 1821 and later referred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations (Senate Journal, 16 Cong., 2 sess., pp. 211, 217, 226). Cf. resolution,
ante, p. 307. See post, p. 320.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 313
mentally respected, and they therefore venture to declare themselves
to your Honorable Body on the subject of the proposed union with
Alabama—
Your Memorialists humbly conceive, that by the annexation of the
Floridas to the territory of the Union, and the establishment therein
of the constitution and Laws of the United States, the necessities
which prompted the acquisition from Spain, through the medium of
the treaty, are substantially appeased; that no such necessity can be
urged to exist for the proposed subjugation of West Florida to Ala-
bama; that it is a measure essentially deficient, both in its nature and
consequences, in an equitable reciprocity of right and interest; and as
such wholly unwelcome to your Memorialists—
Your Memoralists humbly represent to your Honorable Body that
their country is peculiar in almost every of its features; in its climate,
its soil, its population, its resources, and its occupations; that they are
deeply convinced of the value and force of that principle or Spirit of
Laws, so eloquently inculcated by the distinguished writer on the
subject, that all legislative provisions, whether municipal or political
must have relation to national circumstances and local peculiarities;
that this relation is found in the civil and municipal regulations
now existing, and which have so long existed within this territory;
and that if any sudden and abrupt revolution in the laws and arrange-
ments of a society whose concerns and institutions are already compli-
cated and extensive, can be productive of other than mischief and
disorder, your Memorialists are not satisfied that the requisite remedy
and relief is to be found, in the present constitution and code, or is
likely to be supplied, by the legislature, of Alabama; in which the
voice of your Memorialists must be necessarily too feeble to be
heard—
Your Memorialists farther represent to your Honorable Body,
that the proposed union with Alabama, is a measure of permanent
duration; that it is one in which all their future prospects and dearest
interests are involved; one for the precipitation of which as they
humbly conceive, no good or sufficient reason can be assigned; and
that it is therefore one which it is clearly desirable and expedient
in the estimation of your memorialists to suspend for farther and more
mature deliberation and in order that it may hereafter be accomplished,
if it shall prove eventually eligible, upon such terms and in such manner
as may best suit the great interests which are involved, and attain the
great objects which are proposed.
For these among other reasons, your Memorialists humbly pray
that an Act to attach the territory of West Florida to the State of
Alabama may not be passed by your Honorable Body; but that your
Honorable Body will proceed with such dispatch as the exigencies of
the subject and of the occasion require, and such as may comport



314 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
with your wisdom and convenience, to appoint for them a separate
government upon the principles heretofore received and pursued by
your Honorable Body on similar occasions; allowing them as usual a
territorial legislature; and providing for them a Governor of established
Justice and moderation—And your Memorialists as in duty bound will
ever pray &c.
J" de la Rua
Antonio Balderas
Manuel del Barco
Antonio Collin
Pedro de Alba
Thom” Posse La Rioboo
Juan Innerarity
Jose Maina
Sebastian Caro
Ciriaco Lopez
Domingo Gomez
Juan Suarez
J. Sorbes
Luis Gagmett
Luis Maestre
Joseph E. Caro
Pierre Bertrand
Bartholme Bisquera
Manuel Durante
Bernardo Pargas
Sebastian Barrios
M Simon
Pierre Paul
Sebastian Aguilera
José Cap de Bo
Millan de la Carrera
Gabriel Hernandez
Juan Reymund
O. Mitchel
Diego Reyes
Joseph Noriega
fran"o Bonal
Jose Sierra
John Keyser
Manuel Gonzales
Lorenzo Bru
H. Michelet
Joh Bonifay
Silvestre Gomez
Anty J" Guerol
Fransisco Garriga
Manuel Carrillo
Wm Saltonstall
José Camacho
Jose Balada
Fran"o Gomez
Ant” Ramis
Fran” Bauve
Ant” Molina
Antonio Perez
Yñigo Garcia
Alfonso de Sala
Ygnacio Florez
Pedro Mendoza
Joseph Roch
Jose Peynado
Antonio Sausa
Ant" Salazar
Mariano Maldonado
cayetano Garcia
thomas Vilaseca
Jesse Ferguson
F. H. Nisbet
Ramon Santiago
Geo C. Tod
Agustin Perez
Antonio Pol
benito Garcia
Baltazar Centeno
Mariano Pacheco
Manuel Martinez
Vizente Vicent
Pierre Moussion
Franco Beral
Ambrose Caro
Roland Clapp



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 315
Jose Fassiola Franco Ferrer
Desiderio Quina Carlos Lavallé
Andres Lino Lopez Saml Myers
Ygnacio Maura Chas De Brosse
Jº Dubise E. Merlet
Juan Malagoza tomas Arrellano
Avril Josep Escriga
Louis Christophe Fran"o Simon
Jose Biola Fran” Rocheblave
Joaq." Barela Pierre Philibert
Eugenio Lavalle Celestin Phillibert
Carlos Baron
Manuel Dominguez
Philibert
Franco Tonard
W* Batlongue
Diego Barbier
Sebastian Garzon
jh Weigmand
Jº B** Cazenave
R S Parmantier
C Bradford
Jose Marcostio
Jose Ortiz
Jose Santos
H de Grand-Pré
Salvador Ruby
Julian Lavallé
John A. Rogers
Martin Jonson
Wm M. Loftin
D Torri
C* Prudhomme
Juan Gomez
Tomas S* Cyr
Jose Fernandez
Manuel Fernandez
Manuel St Cyr
Miguel Sougell
Francisco Riena
Domingo Gonzalez
Fran” Slopis
Fran” fernandez
Julian Benites
Louis Durant
Cayetano Reguera
Tomas Puch
Domingo Lopez
Juan B” Ximenes
A. P. Philibert
Fran” Moreno
Pedro Senac
Manuel Bonifay
Felix Bonifay
José Hernandez
Jose Danfort
Joseph Gagnet
John Ross
A. M*Rae
Salvador Ramirez
Eugenio Ant" Sierra
François Philis
Franco de Stº Palmes
Fran” Commyns
Celestino Serra
Vacino Serra
Thomas Commyns
Pablo Palmes
Juan Brosnaham
Juan Perez
Edouard Serra
Wm Staple
Celestino Gonzalez
[Endorsed] Florida—Ancient Spanish Citizens of West (against
annexation to Alabama) Feby. 23–1822 Refº to the Select Com-



316 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A PER S
mittee appointed on the 31—Decº last on a petition of Inhab" of W.
Florida 24 Mar 1–1822 Refº to C. W. on Bill N° 51.” Speaker 12.
23. Sel. Com. Baldwin 26 Dec
THE PRESIDENT TO GOVERNOR JACKSON
[NA:SD, Dom Lets., xix **)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 31 Decr 1821 Pa
DEAR SIR. I received some time since your resignation,” and
should have answered it sooner, had I not wished to retain you in the
Service of your Country, until a temporary Government should be
organized over the Floridas, and an opportunity be afforded me to
appoint your successor.” On great consideration, especially as I
know that it is your fixed purpose to withdraw, I have at length
determined to accept it, in which light you will view this Letter.” The
same sentiments which I have heretofore entertained, of your Intigrety
ability and eminently useful services, are still cherished towards you.
That you may long live in health, and in the affections of your Country,
is my most earnest desire.”
With high respect and sincere regard, I am dear Sir, yours,
JAMES MONROE
24 House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 289.
* Ibid., p. 300.
* Printed also in Hamilton (ed.), Writings of James Monroe, v1, 207. A copy
is in LC (Monroe Papers). On the preparation of this letter, see Memoirs,
J. Q. Adams, v, 472–473.
27 Ante, p. 275.
28 For the period of Jackson's governorship when he was absent from Florida
(Oct.–Dec., 1821), there are other letters which have not been printed or men-
tioned; these include: Jackson to the Sec. of State, Aug. 20, 1821 (NA, SD, Fla.
Terr. Papers, vii), Nov. 14, 1821 (loc. cit., Ix), and Dec. 12, 1821 (NA, SD,
Misc. Lets.), all concerning financial matters; Horatio Bigelow to the Sec. of
State, Aug. 27, 1821 (ibid.), transmitting a remonstrance by the Pensacola bar
against certain appointments; Daniel Brent to the Sec. of State, Sept. 18, 1821
(NA, SD, Dom. Lets., Bk. 19), re correspondence with Jackson; and Fontaine
Maury to Jackson, Sept. 22, 1821 (ibid.), concerning his accounts. Jackson also
wrote to the Sec. of State, Aug. 15, 1821, enclosing a memorial from citizens of
Pensacola praying for the establishment of a branch of the Bank of the United
States (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII). A letter from the Sec. of War to Jackson,
Oct. 28, 1821 (LC, Jackson Papers, Vol. 61), stated that Florida matters were
claiming the attention of the President and that a letter in regard to Indian
affairs would be forthcoming.
* Jackson's term as governor expired Jan. 1, 1822. The account for his
services, settled in the following year, includes for his salary as Governor from
June 1, 1821 to Jan. 1, 1822 the sum of $2921.19 (LC, Jackson Mil. Papers,
III; NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept. on Acct. of Andrew Jackson, No. 1162,
Aug. 17, 1822). -
so Answered post, p. 350. Other letters written by the President relating to
affairs in Fla. are printed in Hamilton (ed.), op.cit., pp. 174–176, 197–198, 199–200.



FLORIDA. T E R R I TOR Y 317
DAVID SHANNON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
PENSACOLA Decr 31. 1821.
To HIS ECCELLENCY JAMES MONROE, President of the United States.
DEAR SIR, In complyance with their request I take the liberty of
enclosing to your Exccellency the within recommendation of the Court,
the bar and the city council of Pensacola, in favour of H. M. Bracken-
ridge Esq. as United States' Judge for West Florida. In addition to
what is contained in the beforementioned recommendation, I can only
add, that while the gratification of Judge Brackenride's wishes in this
subjeet respect would add much to the respectability of the United
States courts in West Florida, it would, at the same time afford him
an opportunity of adding to his literary acquirements which might
not only be advantageous to himself, but highly important and use-
ful to the community.
The recommendation in favour of Judge Brackenridge, is unani-
mous as relates to the County court. Two of the Aldermen, and one
or two of the bar, being absent their names could not be procured.
There is no contrariety of opinion here, as to the propriety and
expediency of the appointment.”
I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Eccellency's most
obedient, humble Servant,
D. SHANNON.
[Addressed] His Eccellency James Monroe, President of the United
States, Washington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola Jan. 1 Free H.
D. D.
[Endorsed] 31. Dec. 1821. H. M. Brackenridge Dep" of Sate
recommend" of Mº Brackenridge as Judge for Florida Encloses
Recommendation in favor of H. M. Brackenridge as Judge in West
Florida
[Enclosure:DS]
Recommendation of Henry M. Brackenridge as Judge
[December 26, 1821]
To HIS ECCELLENCY JAMES MONROE, President of the United States—
We the undersigned, members of the Escambia Court and bar, and
of the city Council of Pensacola, understanding that Judge Fromentine,
intends leaving this place, having been appointed President of the
* Other recommendations for appointment as judge are in NA (SD, Applica-
tions). Joseph Wilson, of North Carolina, was recommended to the President
by Sen. Montfort Stokes of that State, May 6, 1822. Two residents of Indiana,
General W. Johnston, the Speaker of the Indiana House of Representatives, and
William W. Wick, were recommended to the Secretary of State by Gov. William
Hendricks, Dec. 17, 1822 and Jan. 6, 1823, respectively.



318 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
College at New Orleans, would beg leave to recommend Henry M.
Brackinridge Esqr, as a suitable person to fill the office of United
States Judge at this place.—From the known character and standing
of Judge Brackinridge, it would be useless to make any representa-
tions as to his qualifications, further than to observe that his knowledge
of the Civil and maritime laws, and of the French and Spanish lan-
guages, render him in the opinion of the undersigned peculiarly well
qualified for the said office. His appointment, it is believed, would
give general satisfaction.
Pensacola Decr. 26. 1821.
D. Shannon, presiding Justice of Escambia County.
ASSOCIATE JUSTICES
E. B. Foster N Shackelford
Jn" Garnier C. Nicholas.
MEMBERS OF THE BAR.
Wa” L Hannum John Lee Williams
J. H. Chaplin R. K. Call
Saml. Fry
Jno Miller, Mayor.
ALDERMEN.
Thomas J Wyche F. H. Nisbet
Wa” L Hannum John Keyser
[Endorsed] 26. Dec. 1821. Associate Justices, the Bar and Mayor
& Aldermen of Pensacola. Recommend H. M. Brackenridge as Judge
in Florida 3°
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
PENSACOLA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:C)
[December 31, 1821]
At an adjourned meeting of the City Council of Pensacola on
Saturday the 29, day of December 1821,
The following memorial was presented to the board, and unani-
mously adopted, to wit:
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States,
The memorial of the city council of the city of Pensacola, respect-
fully represents—That they are encouraged to solicit from tha justice
and liberality of your Honorable body, the same benefits which have
been freely extended under similar circumstances, to cities within the
acquired territories of the United States. Few cities possessing the
* See post, p. 451.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 319
important commercial advantages of Pensacola, and with such
prospects of future consequence, are so totally destitute of permanent
funds, for the support of their city government, or for the erection of
publick edifices of the most necessary kinds. The real property once
owned by this city, together with a considerable portion even of the
publick square, during the troubles of the Spanish monarchy, were
disposed of, and the moneys appropriated to defray the expences of
the Spanish Colonial government, leaving the city, without even a
market house, prison, hospital, or a single edifice of any kind, or a spot
of ground whereon to build, excepting a part of the publick square.
That under the Spanish dominion the provincial and city governments
were inseparably connected, and the publick buildings and property,
served the purposes of boath; but the separation which has taken place
has necessarily produced a state of things entirely different: That this
property, if sold by the United States, will not produce any great
amount; but if granted to the uses of the city, will contribute greatly
to its prosperity.
Your memorialists further represent, that doubts may exist whither
the ground in front of the city, covered by water in ordinary tides,
extending from low water mark to the depth of ten feet, although not
the subject of grant to any individuals, properly lies within the controul
and jurisdiction of the City, or whether the right of property therein
belongs to the United States: That it would greatly tend to the health
and prosperity of this city, that the ground before described, should be
declared exclusively under the controul of the said city, in order that
such improvements may be made thereon, as may be required by its
commerce, without injury to the health, or occasioning publick in-
venience, as would be the case, if the water privileges were monopolized
by a few individuals—
Your memorialists therefore respectfully pray that the publick
property within the limits of the city of Pensacola, as is disignated by
the ordinance of Gen Jackson, incorporating the same, and a narrow
strip of land adjoining thereto, bounded by Col. Kings survey; in-
cluding the sites of Forts St. Phillips and St. Michaels,” well calculated
from their high and healthy situation for a college, and not exceeding
one hundred acres together with the ground in front of the city,
from low water mark to the depth of ten feet, be granted to the city
council for the use and benefit of said city of Pensacola—and your
memorialists will ever pray &c
* The British built a fort at Pensacola during the 1770's which they named
Fort George. Following the Spanish conquest of Pensacola in 1781, this fort
was repaired and renamed Fort St. Michael (Fred Cubberly, “Fort George (St.
Michael), Pensacola,” Fla. Hist. Quar., v1, Apr. 1928, pp. 220–234; Stanley
Fays, “British and Spanish Fortifications of Pensacola, 1781–1872,” ibid., xx,
Jan. 1942, p. 282).



320 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Whereupon the following resolution was adopted to wit: Resolved
that the foregoing memorial be transmitted without delay to the
Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United States of
America.
A true copy from the records in the mayor's office. December 31.
1821.
Att D SHANNON Secretary:
[Endorsed] Florida—City Council of Pensacola Memorial of the
City Council of Pensacola Jan' 28–1822 Refº to the Committee of
the Whole on Bill N° 51. for a Territorial government Wright 17.28.
C W on bill Florida *
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF WEST
FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
[Referred December 31, 1821]
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States, in Congress assembled—
Your memorialists, inhabitants of West Florida beg leave to repre-
sent; that the period is now drawing near when the wisdom of Con-
gress will be called into action, in legislating for the Government of
the Floridas: it is a duty we owe to ourselves and to our Government
to contribute to the general welfare; but more especially to that Sec-
tion of Country where we are situated and with the interests of which
we are best acquainted. The acquisition of the Floridas has added to
the United States an extent of Sea Coast of near Twelve [MS. torn]
within which is embraced one of the finest Harbours [MS. torn]
Country; and numerous others of less importance: These [MS. torn]
not surrounded in the immediate vicinity with a rich and fertile
[MS. torn] connected with the outlets of important Rivers, which
water a rich and flourishing Country;-
Your Memorialists look forward to a period when Pensacola from
its natural advantages, will not only be the place of deposit for the
wealth of a Country, destined by nature to be tributary thereto; but
by the assistance of art, in opening internal communications, may yet
be a Store House for the riches of the South and West—
Your Memorialists entertaining these sentiments as to the import-
ance of Pensacola naturally inquire to what Section of Country are their
interests nearest allied? Is it to East Florida? or is it to the Country
in their rear, to wit, the State of Alabama, to which they must look
for support? The Geographical position of West Florida is as inviting,
in favor of an annexation to the State of Alabama (MS. torn] repug-
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 188.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 321
nant or forbiding that East and West Florida should be incorporated
into the Union as one State. Between the Floridas theire never can
be a comm [MS. torn) of interest; nor can these Territories, with con-
venience, be controuled or managed under one Government. East
Florida is as large or larger than either of five States now forming a
part of the Union: and will the State of Alabama be too large with
West Florida annexed thereto?
Your Memorialists unhesitatingly declare that it is their solemn
belief, that it is for the Political, Civil and Commercial interest and
prosperity of West Florida to be annexed to the State of Alabama;
and to make known more fully this sentiment, we have caused these
presents to be forwarded to your Honourable body; requesting that
Congress will seriously reflect, consult and deliberate and find that it
will be in their wisdom to grant to your memorialists their request.
But should the unfortunate course be adopted, that of incorporating
the Floridas into the Union as one State, it is the devout wish of your
memorialists, that untill the time, this may happen, the Floridas may
[MS. torn] as two distinct and seperate Territories—All which is re-
spectfully submited and for which your Memorialists will ever pray
J. B Cumming
Philip Patrick
Samuel Adams
Sam' A. Carpenter
James Pendleton
Edw Crawford jr
Charles Ewing
E. P. Steele
Samuel Breen
George Bartlett jr
H Jackson
A. M*Rae
James B. Storrs
A Gordon
Rob" Breen
James Pigeon
Henry Tenny
Daniel W. Smith
James Quin
Arthur Collin
Benjamin Middleton
Thomas Love
Jer" Ingraham
Thomas Colburn
James Miller
301867–57 22
John Simpson
Mozea Rousseau
Joseph Cobb
Benjamin Hogg
W* Waterbury
Richerd Edding
Hathaway Richmond
Robert Walker
Saml K Forrester
Geo Watson
W* E Cambridge
Joseph Pope
Joseph Rumsey
William Holley
Allen Jones
Alexander Gordon
Peter M'Caskill
Elias Massey
Norman M*quagge
Angus M*Donald
Alexander M*Caskill
Finlay M*Caskill
Malcolm M*Sween
Duncan M*quagge
Alexander M*Donald



322 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Petter M*Donald
Donald M*Lean
William Whitman
Loften Cotton
Bartrun Bryant
James Tippit
R. L. Cotton
Samuel M'Coy
Etheldred Bozeman
William Crumbly
Mason Cole
William Ellis
Dempsey Harrel
George Caldwell
Charles Ivy
James Bruister
Henry Bruister
William Wilson
Benjamin Parker
Bryant Parker
Danil M Levy
Jn: Garnier
Z Aikin
Fleming Maynard
Th" Anderson
John Edgley
Francis White
Abednego Potter
R P Hughes
Jo" Jones Eq'
John Fitzsimons
John M. G. Miller
Gillam G. Gennings
Jeremiah Austin
Tho” Beeler
Adolphus Harmon
John M"Gonegl
Simeon Norris
Z Bennett
A Hindemberg
Abner Cox
Nathan Jenkins
Cunningham Sharp
Henry P. Finch
Bernard Nollner
John F. Barrister
Domenick Moril
Rob" Caller Jr.
E. P. Cobb
Benj Wyman
John D Cochrane
George Wilson
J A M*David
Malcom Morison
John K. MacLennan
Eben Hathaway
George Brink Jr
S D Parkinson
Elisha Norton
Roland Clapp
A. H. Bohannon
Wm. Brothers
William Bates
D Bowen
George H. Calder
Dugald Pursell
Nell Pursell
Daniel Kirkpatrick
Tho" M*Laren
Elijay Ward
John H. Meir
Henry H Coopper
John Lee
Giles Newton
Jam" Hubbert
M. H. Furlon
E. Stringer
G. Long
William Hurley
Jacob Smith
Daniel Cotton
James W. Snell
Jerimiah Pate
Jesse Handley
H G Ramsay
David Evans
William Johnson
Jesse Gainer
Henry Wilson
Jephtha Gilbert



FL OR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 323
Thomas Ferris Joseph P Reed
Charles J. Deramus John Barclay
R. D. Robinson James Rogers
Thomas J. Wyche Bridgar Webb
Timothy Twitchell W. W. Cobb
Oliver Clark Wm Sessions
Dan" Watson G. A. Snowden
J. H. Chaplin C. Cassin
Ebenezer Waterbury John A. Rogers
Joseph Bunie Patrick Gav [Ms. torn; Gavin?]
Henry Ahrens John W Levinus
Edward Peorho (MS. torn] Paul McClean
S. J. Price
Jn° M Long
Wm. Mims
Wm N. West
James Trant
I. Delazzery
Louis Wilson
John Graham
Charles G Foster
Henry Bicker
Hez. Myers
James W Gourlay
Geo Bullock
Walter Fagan
John P. Dickson
Andrew Hanna
John Wheelr
SS Johnson
F. Chadburn
John Lee Williams
W. Champlin
F Lardan
francis Cypert
Cha" Beeler
Charles Dame
Joseph Anderson
Edward Townes
Robert Maning
Thomas Moore
John Moore
Allen Moore
Alexander Smith
Peter Wilkeson
Thomas delany
John delany
Elijah H. Holmes
Benjan Cobb "
Daniel Cobb
Isaiah Cobb
Stephen Cobb
Ezekiel Cobb
Jones Cobb
Athal S. Cobb
John Parker
Rober Kelley
[Endorsed] West Florida.-Inhabitants of Dec. 31 1821 Refº to Mr
Baldwin Mº Morgan M* Nelson of M" Mº Williams N. C. &–Mr
Breckenridge * Mar 1–1822 Refº to CW on Bill N° 51.
[MS. torn)
* From this point to the end the names are in the same hand.
These Representatives formed a
** House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 101.
select committee, from which the matter was discharged on Mar. 1, 1822, and
committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the bill for the establishment
of a territorial government in Florida (ibid., p. 300).



324 T. E. R. R. I TO R. I. A L P A P E R S
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY MILLAN DE LA CARRERA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess:DS]
|December 31, 1821]
To the Hon. the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
in Congress Assembled—
The Petition of William De La Carrera " a Citizen of the City of
Pensacola humbly Sheweth; that he is a Spanish subject and has
resided in the Floridas for more than Twenty five years and that it is
his determination to remain in the Floridas, -That in the year A. D.
1818 your petitioner for the purpose of receiving a greater revenue or
compensation for the services of certain Slaves to wit, Marcello,
Francisco, Isidoro, Christofer, Juan, Lance, William, Francis Moregon,
Auguana, Rosa, in all ten as aforesaid; that they were removed to
the City of Havana in the Island of Cuba, where they have remained
to the present time, and are now and have been a long time previous to
their removal to the Havana the bona fide property of your petitioner;
the evidence of which is herewith exhibited, and the interest of which
has never been parted with by your petitioner—He therefore prays
your Hon" body to pass a Law, which shall permit him to remove the
aforesaid Slaves, to the City of Pensacola in order that he may enjoy
the benefit of his property—In duty bound will ever pray—
MILLAN DE LA CARRERA
PENSACOLA 31* Dec 1821—
CITY OF PENSACOLA West Florida
Before me H. M. Breckenridge Notary Public for the City of
Pensacola, personally appeared William D. La Carrera, who made
oath, that the facts stated in the within Petition are just and True—
In Witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
(LS) affixed my Seal at the City aforesaid this 31* day of
December A. D. 1821–
MILLAN DE LA CARRERA
Sworn & subscribed before me—
H M BRACKENRIDGE Notary Publick LS
[Endorsed] W" de la Carera Jan’ 24–1822 Refº to Committee on
the Slave trade.* Ap' 2–1822 Report ags" to lie Report that
the prayer of the petitioner be not granted * B" Gorham per order
Moore Ala. 16. 24. Slave trade
37 The discrepancy in this name has appeared frequently in printings of docu-
ments from the period. In Spanish Land Grants in Fla., II, 255, 256, and III, 44,
the name appears as Milan. A.S.P., Pub. Lands, VI, 545 has Millan but H. Report
83, 17 Cong., 1 sess., gives the name as William.
38 House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 181.
39 Ibid., p. 422; H. Rept. 83, 17 Cong., 1 sess.



PART THREE
Papers Relating to the Administrations of
Acting Governors Walton (West Florida) and
Worthington (East Florida)
1822






PART THREE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO ANDREW JACKSON 1
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters., XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 1 Jan." 1822
GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON Nashville
SIR I have had the honour of receiving your Letter of the 22 of
November with its enclosures.”
Translations are now transmitted to you by direction of the Presi-
dent of the United States of two Letters received from the Minister
of Spain, the definitive answer to which will be deferred, until I
shall have the opportunity of receiving your reply to this Letter,
with any remarks which you may think proper to make on the Let-
ters of the Minister. You will observe that in that relating to the
seizure of the papers at S*Augustine, he dwells with much earnest-
ness on the agreement which had been made between Colonel Butler
and the late Governor Coppenger concerning those papers—If that
agreement was known to you at the time when you issued the order
for demanding and securing the papers, will you have the goodness
to state the particular grounds, on which you judged it necessary to
resort to compulsory measures for obtaining possession of them *
I have the honour to be with great respect Sir. your very humble
and ob" Servº
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W178:LS)
Executive Department E. F. St AUGUSTINE Jan’ Tºm 1822
SIR On the 3” inst Capt. Pelham reported himself to me here, as
being the Sub Indian Agent in the place of M* Peniers deceased; He
is unwell and will remain here probably some time—I told him I was
After the acceptance of Jackson's resignation (ante, p. 275), Worthington and
Walton continued to function as acting governors of E. and W. Fla., respectively,
until the arrival of the permanent governor, June 20, 1822 (post, p. 475), who
was charged with the administration of the whole territory under the act approved
Mar. 30, 1822 (post, p. 389).
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, vii.1), printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III,
133–139, and A. S. P., Misc., II, 826–828.
* Answered post, p. 334.
327



328 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ready to communicate fully with him and shew him every thing in
my possession respecting Indian affairs as I had done to Captain
Bell into whose hands I placed all General Jacksons communications
to me on that head—Capt Bell left here on the 23% ult” for Washington
in company with Judge DuVal
The Indian affairs remain pretty much as they were, when I last
wrote to the Department of War and my opinion is unchanged, that
they ought to be sent up amongst the Creeks “—
If I were to let my partiality for this Province prevail over my
opinion for the general good, I should say an Indian agency in Florida
would be beneficial to us—But I should only say so from Territorially-
interested motives—The General Government are abler and wiser on
this subject than I can pretend to be—I shall cheerfully acquiese in
whatever course they may recommend—
It is the fate of politicians, therefore not improbable that in the
reorganization of the Florida Administration, I may have become
functus officio-Whether that may happen, or I may be continued
here or elsewhere—I take leave to obtrude on you as one of the
Cabinet a short remark—That in the selection of Officers for this
country, it requires in the most special manner, men of inflexible
honesty, fearless and incorruptible—Not linked in and prejudiced and
compromitted in the speculations, particularly landed &" of either the
old or new inhabitants of the Province—So far as I can possitively
understand, you have been thus far fortunate in your choices and feel
confident you will continue to be so—But the subject requires,
rather an increase than a diminution of vigilance—I know it is one of
the most delicate and hazardous movements in life to give advice,
particularly to persons in high stations, without being thought
impertinent or pragmatical—But I trust, you will not subject me to
any such unworthy imputation, when I assure you it proceeds, from
the most abstract sense of duty—I leave my own destiny in the hands
* Several letters re Indian affairs were written by Capt. Bell, while he was in
Washington. With his letter of Jan. 14, 1822, announcing his arrival, he sub-
mitted several enclosures illustrating relations between the Indians and the
Spanish (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 262). In a letter of Jan. 22 he submitted
information concerning the Indians in Florida and enclosed a list of their settle-
ments (loc. cit., B 263; an extract of the letter and the list are published in
H. Doc. 51, 17 Cong., 2 sess.; the list is printed post, p. 463). Bell left Washing-
ton early in May for St. Augustine (Bell to the Secretary of War, May 1 and
May 20, 1822, NA, loc. cit., B 102, B 385). From the latter place he wrote on
May 26, expressing his disappointment at not receiving the appointment as
Indian Agent in Florida (loc. cit., B 419). After Pelham was granted a leave
of absence, Bell declined to act for him in Indian affairs, having severed all
connection therewith (Bell to the Secretary of War, July 16, 1822, loc. cit., B 69).
He was instructed by the Secretary on Aug. 20 to turn over money and property of
the Indian Department to Gov. DuVal (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 329
of my friends, and I have no favourite to support nor foe to oppose,
in the reorginazation of the Government of the Floridas—
I shall still continue to watch over and communicate with you
particularly on Indian affairs."—
With distinguished consideration &"
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HON” J. C. CALHOUN Secretary at War
[Addressed] The Hon” John C. Calhoun Secretary at War Wash-
ington City
[Endorsed] Worthington. W. G. D. &c. Sº Augustine, 7 Jan’, 1822.
relative to Capt" Pelham; to Capt." Bell, to app" of an Agent for East
Florida & Indian Affairs; to appointment of officers &c, &c.—
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
Executive Department East Florida, STAUGUSTINE Jan. 8. 1822.
SIR-The emigration to this Province does not prove so abundant
as might have been expected—The Spaniards will mostly leave it,
for various considerations—This is a trait in their national character,
an invincible disinclination to amalgamate with or become a part of a
foreign nation: and would have happened sooner or later under any
administration, under any system of things, provided the Spanish
Sovereignty in the Province was not suffered to prevail—The Spanish
Government have used pains to induce them to emigrate to the Island
of Cuba & they have availed themselves of facilities offered and ad-
vantages held out to them—I had no right to countervail their inclina-
tions, except by acting with justice & uprightness in the administration
of the affairs of this Province agreeably to my best judgment & the
orders given me—Hoping, that the superiority of the American mode
of Government & its honest & plain character would induce them to
prefer it—
* During the remainder of Worthington's tenure in E. Fla., Indian relations were
of a rather routine nature. He was visited in April 1822 by Chief Oponey and in
the next month by Micanope and the Pond Chief and advised them about their
intercourse with the whites who were pressing upon their territory. Relevant
letters from Worthington to the Secretary of War are dated as follows: Jan. 22,
Mar. 7, Mar. 26, Apr. 6, May 4, May 20, May 22, May 28, and June 24, 1822
(NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd.).



330 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
There are three or four hundred Minorcans " & their descendants
who will remain, they are a good, quiet, industrious people—The
remainder of this population will be American, French &c.— -
I sent the enclosed Communication to the Mayor & the new Council
& they will send on to Congress a memorial to have the gift of the
Public Property for the use of this Territory—
I wish it to be distinctly understood by the Government, that if in
the reorganization of the Administration for the Floridas, it shall be
deemed better either in a Territorial or National point of view that I
should be superseded or left out—that all personal considerations in
my favor, shall be waived—Conscious of having done my duty here &
that I have the approbation of the Government & the American nation
so far as my humble services, call for their notice—
Yet, if I could be transferred, from this Province to some fit employ
at home or abroad, I should feel the highest obligations for such a
continued mark of distinction—I have as yet, bought not a foot of
land here—& therefore have no local predilections—There is one
remark I will beg leave, to be excused for making, to you as one of the
Cabinet—That in the selection of all officers for the Floridas, men of
the strictest & most inflexible honesty should be chosen—Men, firm &
decided, fearless of all consequences in discharging the duties of their
stations—and above all, not connected with, linked in & tainted with
the land claims & speculations either of the old or new inhabitants of
the Province—I have no favourite to recommend nor adversary to
oppose & I hope I may be better provided for, than continue here—
Therefore nothing but a sacred sense of Duty Could have induced me
to hazzard the imputation of obtrusiveness in offering these observa-
tions—
If the Floridas be consolidated, this will in time become an impor-
tant Southern Slave-holding state—producing as it's staples, Cotton,
sugar rice & fruit—But I fear the whole of it, with the exception of
small & dry islands directly on the sea coast, will ever be unhealthy
for white people emigrating from High, & healthy lattitudes 7–
With distinguished consideration—
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS
[Endorsed] Papers—Nº 1. & No. 2. W. G. D. Worthington—
• These were colonists from Minorca brought into Florida by Dr. Andrew
Turnbull and settled at New Smyrna in 1767 (Brevard, Hist. of Fla., I, 4, n. 3).
See also Charles L. Mowat, East Fla. as a British Province, 1763–1784 (Univ.
Calif. Pubs. in Hist., Vol. XXXII), pp. 71–72 et passim.
7 Acknowledged post, p. 368.



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 331
[Enclosures]
Acting Governor Worthington to the City Council of St. Augustine
Executive Department, E. F.
[No. 1]
ST AUGUSTINE Jany 2d 1822
To THE HON” THE MAYOR AND ALDERMEN of the City Council
GENTLEMEN I take leave to inform you that the Ordinance which
was proposed by me as Nº. 6, and which accompanied my letter of
the 22" ult.* to your Honorable Body with all the correspondence
which arose thereon have been transmitted to the Secretary of State
at Washington—So soon as I shall be informed of the intentions of the
the General Government, respecting the substitution of the elective
system, or the continuance of the present one I will without delay
communicate it to you.
In the mean time I have thought it advisable to reorganize the board
of Aldermen, the old ones having resigned; and shall continue under
the present mode 'till a more congenial and perfect one be pointed out
by the highest authorities.
On the commencement of this new year permit me to felicitate you
and our brother Floridians on the return of health to this City; which
under the divine disposer of all things, I hope may never again be so
awefully assailed as in the past season—I seriously and solemnly
invite all your energies and care to an immediate efficient police,
which I most conscientiously believe to be absolutely necessary to
guard us against the certain recurrence, with the warm weather, of
another attack of the Malignant Fever—
I would also invite your attention immediately to the subject of
forwarding a memorial to Congress praying a grant of such of the
public lots and property in and about this City as the General Gov-
ernment may not require for public purposes to be given to the use
and behoof of this Territory, except what may have been used and
occupied in common by the Inhabitants—
It is necessary to observe that the Officer Commanding the U.S.
Troops on this station informed me personally some 10 or 12 days
ago that he had received orders from the Secretary at War, to deliver
over to the Acting Governor of this Province, under the opinion of
the Prisedent expressed on that subject, 1* the Government House,
Lot and Premises—2" the Council Chamber—3" the Hospital in the
center of the City to be evacuated, and some other property as speci-
fied in the order from the Department of War, as soon as that could
be conveniently done—I have no doubt there will be no unnecessary
delay—Of which property, so soon as it shall be at my disposition, I
* Transmitted to the Department of State with Jackson's letter of Jan. 5, 1822
(NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, X). The ordinance concerned an election in Jan.
1822 of the Mayor and Aldermen of St. Augustine. -



332 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
shall recommend your occupying the old Council Chamber again for
the discharge of your duties—'till then you will continue to rent
some cheap and convenient room to sit in as heretofore—
I was put in possession of the Government House before the afore-
said order came on, under the opinion of General Jackson on that head
I have been obliged to expend my private funds to put it into even
habitable repair, which expenditures will be properly vouched and
I shall claim their reimbursement—
Your estimate of the 10th Dec of $5,000 with all the papers respect-
ing the Taxes &c. have been forwarded to the Department of State,
and the determination on all which, as soon as it shall reach me,
will be communicated to you—
Gentlemen. With full confidence that you will do every thing in
your power for the good and prosperity of this City and its depend-
encies, and an assurance that I will frankly and firmly cooperate
with you, I pray the blessing of providence on your labours—
(Signed) W. G. D WORTHINGTON
Secy & Acting Governor of East Florida
[Endorsed] St Augustine Jan' 2" An Executive Communication to
the City Council N° 1
Memorial to Congress by the City Council of St. Augustine
[Referred February 1, 1822)
To the Hon.” The Senate & House of Representatives of the United
States in Congress Assembled.
The Memorial of the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of St
Augustine Respectfully Sheweth;
That the City of Sº Augustine has suffer'd in an unusual degree in
Common with other Towns, in the United States from the visitation
of malignant fever during the last year; Whatever may be the opinions
entertain’d by Medical Professor's, concerning it's origin, whether
from importation, or from local causes, it is by your Memorialists
believed by all; that Cleanliness in the Streets, the removal of nuis-
ances, fit receptacles for the sick, the Constant employment of Hos-
pital Physicians & sufficient attendance of Nurses, tend to mitigate
the severity, if not entirely to prevent the Occurrence of Endemial
diseases;
Your Memorialists, regret, being under the necessity of disclosing
the fact, that the Ordinary revenue of the City, is not at present, nor
can it be expected, that for some years to Come, it will be adequate
to effect these important objects, & they therefore look forward with
trembling anxiety to the approaching Season, when they may be
again visited with disease; in a state as unprepared to resist its ravages.
as they were during the past Year.
Your Memorialists beg leave to represent, that the General Gov-
erment, by Virtue of the Cession of Florida to the United States,



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 333
has become possessed of some publick property, consisting of Publick
Buildings in the City of Sº Augustine & Sundry lots of Land, in &
adjacent thereto, And Encouraged by a Knowledge of the liberality,
extended by Congress on similar Occasions, to the other Territories
of the United States Your Memorialists humbly pray, your Honor-
able bodies to make a donation of the publick buildings & Such por-
tion of the Publick Land, above mention'd, as may not be requir’d,
for the Service of the general Goverment, Whereby the Authorities
of Sº Augustine, may be enabled to erect such Hospitals & Lazarettoes
& adopt such wholesome measures for removing the Nuisances, which
have been allow'd to Accumulate in the City for so many year's, as
will restore to Sº Augustine, it's long establish’d reputation for Health.
Your Memorialists, therefore pray, that an Act may be pass'd,
granting the Publick property to the Town of Sº Augustine under
the limitation, above expressed & your Memorialists as in duty
Bound will ever pray *
In behalf of the City Council
J. G. FORBES Mayor
[Endorsed] Memorial No. 2.
FONTAINE MAURY TO JAMES G. FORBES
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington 8. Jany 1822
JAMES G. FORBES Esquire S*Augustine
SIR, I am directed by the Secretary to request that you will im-
mediately transmit your account against this Department for com-
pensation as agent to receive the Archives and Documents at the
Havanna, which it is understood should cease on the day you received
your Commission as Marshal of the Floridas.
I am with much Respect, Sir your very humble and ob' Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS 19]
Executive Department East Florida STAUGUSTINE Jany 15* 1822
SIR (The enclosed certificates N° 12 & 13" will close all the papers
which I have thought It necessary to send on respecting the Archives—
* Presented to the Senate on Feb. 1, 1822, and referred to the Committee on
Public Lands, which was discharged from consideration thereof on Mar. 19
(Senate Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 106, 197, 201). The Committee reported
Mar. 18 that granting the prayer without further information would be improper
(S. Doc. 66, 17 Cong., 1 sess.).
* The first two paragraphs are printed in A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 792.
11 Ibid., p. 792.



334 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
If the Government will direct me what to do with the papers de-
termined to be returned to the Ex Governor and Escribano, I will
make the disposition of them accordingly)—
I see by the papers that General Jackson has resigned—I feel at
some loss on this head as I have no information officially to that
effect—However I shall continue to communicate as usual—
Being in want of funds, even for the necessaries of living, I took
the liberty to draw on you at sight for Six Hundred Dollars in favour
of H. Dousman a Bill of two sets of the 25" ulto.—I trust it will be
duly honored—
I have endeavoured to manage this Government as well as I could
and affairs appear to go on as well as can be expected—Considering
the population its mixed character &" &° &"—And all the peculiarities
under which I have been placed since my arrival here, it was difficult
to do things even as little exceptionably, as I have done—
I have been governed however, rather by what must be the ruling
character of this Previhee Country, than influenced by momentary
and temporary expedients—Governed by principles, not parties, con-
sidering myself the Chief Civil Magistrate of the Territory not the
head of factions whether of Foreigners or Americans—This policy I
find even now sustains me and I know it is the only one that will and
ought to carry me through *—
With distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida—
THE HON” JoHN Q ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] The Hon” John Q. Adams Secretary of State
Washington
[Endorsed] Worthington W G D. St Augustine, 15 Jan: 1822 Recd
3 feby Archives of East florida &c. W. G. D. Worthington—
ANDREW JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS is]
NASHVILLE January 22°, 1822
SIR, Your letter of the 1* Instant,” reached me a few days since, in
which you advise me of the receipt of mine of the 22° of November,
with its enclosures. I had also the honor to receive a copy of your
communication, dated 2* of November, to the Minister of Spain,”
12 Answered post p. 368.
is Printed also in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 793–796, and in S. Doc. 86, 17 Cong.
1 sess. A copy is also in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
14 Ante, p. 327.
18 To Don Joaquin de Anduaga, NA (SD, Notes to Foreign Legations, Wol 8,
p. 29), printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 787–788.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 335
together with the translations of two letters from said minister, ad-
dressed to the Secretary of State, and transmitted to me by direction
of the President of the United States.” You inform me, that the
definitive answer to these letters will be deferred, until you shall have
the opportunity of obtaining my reply, with any remarks I may be
disposed to make on the communications of the Minister of Spain.
I sincerely regret, that Don Joaquin de Anduaga's letter of the 22°
of November, had not been transmitted at an earlier period, as it will
be necessary in my reply, to refer you to the two communications of
Capº Bell, of the 31* of July” and 4” of August last,” and to M*
Worthington's letters on the subject of the archives at St Augustine;”
the first of which, are on file in the Executive Office at Pensacola, and
the last I had forwarded to you when I was informed by Doct. Bron-
ough, that my resignation was accepted on the first ult; not ex-
pecting to have any further use for them. Immediately on the
receipt of your letter, however, I wrote M* Worthington, requesting
him to forward you certified copies of his communications, as promptly
as practicable, and have adopted the same measure in relation to those
of Capt. Bell, altho' I had been advised that he had transmitted
duplicates to you from St Augustine. To these documents I must
refer you, relying upon my answers thereto, and my own recollection
for their contents, and accompanying my reply with such vouchers as
are within my reach; believing that there will be ample testimony in
your possession, to enable you to rebut the slanderous statement, and
expose the unblushing falsehoods of this insolent and indecorous
Minister of the Spanish Government.
Upon the subject of seizing the papers at St Augustine, you observe,
that the Spanish Minister dwells with much earnestness on the agree-
ment which had been made between Colo. Butler and the late Governor
Coppinger, concerning these papers; and request to be informed,
whether this agreement was known to me, at the time the order was
issued for demanding and securing them; and if so, to state the
particular grounds on which I judged it necessary to resort to com-
pulsory measures for obtaining possession of them.
In answer to this enquiry, I have the honor respectfully to state,
that Co" Butler, the commissioner appointed to receive the transfer
of East Florida from the Spanish Government, reached me on the 8”
of August last, at Pensacola, and made his report.” As soon as it was
submitted to my examination, I was entirely satisfied, that neither
1° Nov. 18, 1821, re the Callava affair, and Nov. 22, 1821, re the disposal of the
Florida archives, NA (SD, Notes from Spain, Vol. 7), printed, A. S. P., op. cit.,
pp. 789–790.
17 Not found.
*NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII).
* Ante, p. 247.
* Ante, p. 165.



336 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Coppinger on the one hand, nor Butler on the other, had any authority,
either under the treaty or their instructions, to enter into such an
agreement relative to the Archives, which were, by a positive stipula-
tion between the two Governments, to have been delivered over with
the country, to the constituted authorities of the United States. The
Treaty was imperative, and vested the parties with no discretion
upon the subject. Believing, however, that the course adopted by
Co! Butler, was perhaps, the only one that could have been pursued,
without the employment of force, to preserve the documents; and not-
withstanding I was perfectly satisfied, that Coppinger had, on his
part, violated both the Treaty and the order of the Captain General
of Cuba, yet I felt disposed to leave the Archives precisely in the same
situation in which Co' Butler placed them under his agreement with
Coppinger. I was induced to take this course from a wish to create no
unnecessary difficulties, and from a hope, that the Spanish Officers
would comply with their arrangement, and permit the papers to re-
main unmolested, until the arrival of the President's instructions in
regard to their final disposition. From the treachery and duplicity
which I had discovered to be practised by the Officers of Spain, I
frankly confess, that my hopes on this occasion, were not very strong
and flattering.
This insolent minister states, that the commissioners, Butler and
Coppinger, stipulated, that the Artillery and Archives were to remain,
the first in deposit in possession of the Anglo-American commissary,
and the last where they were; and without the possibility of their
being taken away to the Havanna. He does not say what was their
situation; but it will be recollected, that the Alcalde was their keeper.
Nor does he tell you, that Don Jose Coppinger, permitted them to be
picked and culled, and taken away, in violation of his solemn pledge
and agreement, as you will see, by a referrence being had to Capt.
Bell's letters to me, of the 31* of July, and 4” of August 1821, dupli-
cates of which, I am advised, are in your possession.
When I received these letters from Capt. Bell, who exercised pro-
visionally the powers and authorities of Secretary of East Florida,
before the arrival of M* Worthington, I acknowledge, that my indig-
nation at Spanish treachery and perfidy was very much aroused. I
felt that it was my imperative duty to protect the people of Florida
in the enjoyment of the rights secured to them expressly, under the
Treaty. I was bound to act on the occasion. The agreement re-
specting the Archives, although void ab initio, for the want of power,
had been outrageously violated by Coppinger, or with his connivance,
and the evidence of individual rights secured to the citizens, about to
be fraudulently conveyed away, after he had pledged himself to Co'
Butler, that they should “not be removed from that place, and should
remain precisely as they were.”



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 337
The verbal report of Co" Butler, as communicated in my letter of
the 4* of August last,” affords us a clue to the motives of Col Cop-
pinger in attempting to practice this base deception. For the last
six months previous to the transfer of the country, it is believed, he
had been engaged in issuing surreptitious grants for large quantities
of land in East Florida. It became necessary, that they should be
taken to the Island of Cuba, for the purpose of consummating the
titles. These were no doubt the documents which were picked and
culled from the ballance, to be transported to the Havanna; as Cop-
pinger was convinced that the fraud would be inevitably detected, if
they should be surrendered to the American Authorities. This ex-
plains thereason why and wherefore they were not delivered over to our
Commissioner in the first instance, and forms the basis of the confi-
dential communication made to Co' Butler on the 3° of July last ad-
vising him that a large portion of those Archives, relating to private
property, were packed up for removal to Cuba, and which gave rise
to his letter to Co'Coppinger of that date as will appear by the en-
closed extract marked E.”
Speaking of the correspondence between Co" Butler and Coppinger,
Don Joaquin de Anduaga remarks; that “By the before mentioned
correspondence it appears, that doubts had arisen whether the Artillery
and certain Archives ought, or ought not to be delivered over to the
United States.” With due deference, I would ask, could any doubts
exist as to the Archives under the 2* Article of the Treaty? No.
Could any doubts be entertained relative to the Archives embraced
in the instructions of his Catholic Majesty, or the instructions given
by the Captain General of Cuba, to Don Jose Coppinger,” Colonel,
and commanding the Spanish forces at St Augustine, and who was
charged with the delivery of the country and all documents relating
to the property and sovereignty of the country ceded? It is presumed
not. In his letter to Co' Forbes, of the 18" of May 1821, the Captain
General of Cuba says:—“Respecting East Florida, where there ought
to be found all her Archives, Governor Mahy would direct that Gov-
ernor, as entrusted by him with the important commission, to make a
formal delivery to Mº Forbes of that province, as well as of the docu-
ments belonging to it. A similar dispatch would be addressed to the
commandant of West Florida.” “ Here is a positive declaration, that
such instructions were, or should be given to Governor Coppinger, for
* See ante, p. 156, which, however, contains no allusion to Butler. No other
Jackson letter of Aug. 4, 1821, has been found.
* Present, and printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 797–798. A further exchange
of relevant correspondence is also printed ibid., p. 798; and still other letters be-
tween the two are found in A. S. P., Misc., II, 875–889.
** Not seen.
* Ante, p. 96, under date of May 16.
301867–57–23



338 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
the delivery of all the Archives included in the stipulations of the
Treaty. Contrast this statement of the Captain General of Cuba,
with the answer of Governor Coppinger to Co" Butler's letter to him,
dated July 3° 1821.” “Confining myself” he says “to a compliance
with the Treaty, and the orders of my Government, (which he informed
Co! Butler verbally, prevented him from delivering the Archives)
their literal sense is the only guide to my endeavour in the execution,
and when any doubts arise, I consult them with that frankness neces-
sary to ascertain my course, and warrant my responsibility.” From
this exposition, no one can fail to discover a striking contradiction
between the Captain General Mahy and Governor Coppinger; the
former assuring Co.' Forbes, that he would direct Governor Coppinger
to deliver over the documents to the American authorities, and the
latter asserting, “that as an individual, he believed they should be given
over” See E E * but that the orders of his Government prevented him
from performing that duty. One or the other has stated a positive
falsehood; for which, the Spanish Government, it is conceived, should
be required to inflict signal punishment on the aggressor, both as a
violator of his orders, and of the provisions of the Treaty, solemly
entered into and ratified by the two nations. We can find no excuse,
either for the Captain General, Governor Coppinger, or Co'Callava,
for not complying with the orders of their superiors, and with good
faith carrying into effect the 2° Article of the Treaty, by delivering,
and being prepared to deliver over all the Archives and documents
appertaining to the property and sovereignty of the Floridas. In-
stead of this; the Captain General does not deliver them at Cuba;
Coppinger, contrary to his orders, was preparing to convey them away,
in a clandestine manner, in violation of his agreement and solemn
pledges, until arrested in his faithless conduct by Co' Butler; and
Callava, whilst professing to surrender all the Archives, &" was
wickedly and treacherously attempting to carry away the testamen-
tary papers of the heirs of Vidal, and other documents, which were the
evidences of claims to private property in the country ceded to the
United States.
The unjustifiable delays and evasions of the Officers of Spain, in
witholding the Archives and documents, of which the delivery had
been expressly stipulated by Treaty; vouchers indispensable to the
United States for the dispensation of private justice, and the estab-
lishment of private right, but entirely useless to Spain, could not
but impress upon me the belief, that they were intended to subserve
the purposes of injustice, fraud and oppression. The attempt to
carry away a number of those documents, from St Augustine and
Pensacola in a clandestine manner, was considered as a flagrant
* Ante, p. 105; the answer is ante, p. 106.
* Refers to the enclosure, post, p. 344.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 339
violation of the Treaty, and I began to entertain the opinion, that a
systematic combination had been formed amongst the Officers of
Spain to deprive the honest citizens of the country of all the evidences
of their right to property, secured to them by the provisions of the
ceSSIOn.
Under these impressions, and believing myself vested with legal
authority to protect the lights of the citizen, I was urged by the most
imperative duty to exercise it in their behalf. Upon the receipt of
Capt. Bell's letters, before referred to, advising me that the Archives
at St Augustine were picked and culled, to be conveyed away, I
forthwith wrote him on the 1* of September, 1821,” the letter here-
with enclosed, marked C, of which the following is an extract:—
“I have this moment received your several letters of the 31* of
July and the 4” of August, with their enclosures, and regret that the
shortness of time will not permit me to answer in detail. On the
subject of the Archives, I will barely draw your attention to the second
Article of the Treaty with Spain, according to which, all Archives or
documents, directly relating to the property or sovereignty of the
country, are to be delivered by her. You will, therefore, forthwith
on the receipt of this, if not already in possession of them, take them
into your possession, and place them in the hands of the Alcalde for
sake keeping; and who ought to be like every other, a sworn officer
under the Government, and not a Spanish Officer, owing no allegiance
to the United States. All papers and documents in the possession
of the Cabildo, and of course in the possession of American and not
Spanish functionaries, are to be retained, and none of them permitted
to be culled and taken away.
“I am gratified with the friendly expressions of the Cabildo of St
Augustine, but am sorry to find they have so entirely mistaken
the sense of the Proclamation. Nothing could be more absurd, than
that Spanish Officers as such, should administer the Government.
The true meaning is, that whenever the Incumbent will take the oath
to support the constitution of the United States and adjure that of
Spain, and take the oath of Office, he shall be continued therein; the
part of the Proclamation which enjoins fidelity to the Government of
the United States, would otherwise be nonsense, and the Governor
has at all times the power to remove or dismiss him, and supply his
place. But this will not be done, unless it be found that he is incom-
petent to his trust, or unfaithful; and whenever either is the case,
this power for the benefit of the People, ought to be exercised.”
Having previously addressed Capt. Bell a letter on the 13° of
August 1821,” a copy of which is enclosed, marked D, and forwarded
* Present, and printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 796–797.
* Present, and printed ibid., p. 797. A duplicate of this letter is ante, p. 167.



340 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
it to him by Mº Bird, Attorney for the United States in East Florida,
I was gratified to find from his answer, that before the receipt of either
of my communications, himself and Mº Worthington had taken the
steps necessary to preserve the Archives, and extend to the People of
East Florida that protection, which was secured and guaranteed to
them under the Treaty. This will fully appear by referrence to the
communications of M* Worthington, all of which I have heretofore
transmitted to you—
When it is recollected that the Archives and documents relating to
the property and sovereignty of the Floridas were to be transferred
with the country, agreeably to the stipulations of the Treaty, and that
Governor Coppinger had been ordered to deliver those in East Florida;
what indignation must fill every honest and honorable breast, when
we learn from the letter of the keeper of these papers at St Augustine,
that he claims them as private property, which he had acquired by
purchase! From whom could this purchase have been made? From
the King? No; because he had stipulated to surrender them with the
country to the American authorities. If bought at all, it must have
been effected with the Executive Magistrate of the Province. In
either event, it must have originated in the grossest corruption, and
was rendered null and void by the Treaty between Spain and the
United States. Such, however, is the reason assigned, why this
subaltern Spanish officer disobeys his King, and his superiors, with an
insolent Spanish Minister to justify him in his villany, and at the
same time charging your Agent, who has in every particular, executed
the Treaty in good faith, with atrocious crimes committed against the
honor of his King and nation. Although Don Joaquin de Anduaga
has taken occasion to heap upon me the most illiberal and indecorous
epithets, he is challenged to substantiate a single instance, in which
myself or those acting under me, have not scrupulously executed
every Article of the Treaty with Spain. There is no foundation, then,
upon which to rest the criminal charges of this rude and insolent
Minister, save in his own brain; in the falsehood stated by Co" Jose
Coppinger, in his ridiculous appeal to the American People, and in his
Protest, to which, it seems he testified with his oath.
It appears, that the Minister of Spain considers his sovereign as
having been insulted in the most scandalous manner, in the person of
his Commissary, Co'Coppinger. At the time the seizure of the papers
was effected, he insists that Co" Coppinger was entitled to all the
privileges and immunities of a public Officer of Spain, in consequence
of his being recognised as such, in doing and transacting business with
Capt Bell. The fact was, that Capt. Bell was not vested with any
diplomatic or commissarial powers, and any such recognition on his
part, was as ineffectual as it was without authority. This position is
so truly ridiculous, as scarcely to deserve a comment: By turning to



F L OR I D A T E R RITOR Y 341
the act of cession executed by Co' Butler and Jose Coppinger, it will be
distinctly seen, that neither of those persons retained any powers as
commissioners, after the date of that instrument: If this was the case,
it must be equally evident that neither Capt. Bell nor M. Worthington
could have possessed such powers at the period to which the Spanish
Minister has alluded. Co' Jose Coppinger being the Commander in
chief and Governor ex officio over East Florida, he was charged under
the Treaty, with the delivery of the Country, and the withdrawal of
the Spanish Troops. The moment these duties were performed, both
his and Co' Butler's powers as Commissioners ceased. This event
took place on the 10° of July 1821,” when the Spanish Authorities
ceased the exercise of their functions, as is demonstrated by the
following extract from the act of cession:-
“There has been verified, at four O’clock of the evening of this day,
the complete and personal delivery of the fortifications, and all else
of this aforesaid province, to the Commissioner, Officers and Troops
of the United States, and, in consequence thereof, having embarked
for the Havanna, the Military and Civil Officers and Spanish Troops
in the American transports provided for this purpose; the Spanish
Authorities having this moment ceased the exercise of their functions,
and those appointed by the American Government having begun
theirs,” &c.
The Surrender of the Provinces had been completed, and the occa-
sion which created Commissioners ceased to exist. The authority
and Troops of Spain were withdrawn, and the United States in entire
and rightful possession of the country. The six months had also
transpired, within which the Treaty provided the transfer of sov-
ereignty should be made, as well as the evacuation of all the Spanish
Officers within the Floridas. Co" Coppinger remaining after the
occurrence of these events, could no longer be considered as entitled
to the privileges and immunities of a public Agent. He could only
be viewed as a stranger permitted to reside in the Floridas—, “ame-
nable to the common judicial tribunals, but who, conformable to the
Spanish laws, existing before the cession of the Province, would have
been liable to removal from it, or to imprisonment at the discretion
of the Governor, for the mere act of being there.”
These disclosures, I hope, will exempt me from the criminal charge,
which Don Joaquin de Anduaga has preferred against me of having
trampled upon the laws of Nations, and the law of every civilized
country. If the detection of treachery and prevention of fraud; the
security of the rights of the citizen, and a scrupulous adherence to the
articles of the Treaty, which both Governments were sacredly bound
to fulfil, are to be considered atrocities, I have to observe, that I
* Ante, p. 111.



342 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
glory in the charge, and give this further assurance, that is the course
which I shall always pursue. I would enquire of this Minister, whether
the law of nations protects the agents of Spain in the open violation
of the Treaty, the rights of individuals, and the orders of their Gov-
ernment? Does this law sanction the noncompliance with the most
solemn engagements, by which the rights of individuals were to be
sacrificed, by depriving them of those evidences of property, stipu-
lated to be delivered over with the country ceded? If so, then is
every treaty a perfect mockery, and the law of nations becomes the
authority for every species of fraud and corruption. Coppinger and
Callava might not only have furtively carried away all the Archives
of the country, but also the negroes or moveable property, and their
agency would have secured them from merited punishment! Doc-
trines leading to such absurd and dangerous results, deserve the con-
tempt and indignation of every honest and intelligent individual in
the country.
To the remark of the Spanish Minister, “that the more my conduct
is considered, the more evident it is that by it my sole object has been
to insult Spain;” I have to observe in reply, that it is as insolent as
it is unjust. I again challenge Don Joaquin de Anduaga to establish
the fact necessary to authorise such a conclusion. If I know myself,
I can declare with the utmost confidence, that I have never entertained
any thing like national antipathies, and that my conduct, on no occa-
sion, has ever been influenced by such base and unmanly considera-
tions. All the measures of my administration, whilst Governor of
the Floridas, were founded upon the principles of justice; the object
of which was to secure to the United States and the people who were
citizens of the ceded provinces, those rights which were guaranteed
to them under the cession, and which the faithless officers of Spain
had wantonly violated in contravention of the Treaty, the positive
orders of their superiors, and their own solemn pledges and engage-
ments! Such corrupt agents as these, who wore the insignia of Office,
as well as the badge of dignity and honor, excited my disgust and
abhorrence; and the Minister of Spain would do well to purge the
Officers of his own Government, before he is permitted to allege crim-
inal charges against those of the United States. The virtuous and
honorable Spaniard claims the same share of my respect and confi-
dence, as the citizens belonging to any other nation. I rejoice in the
regeneration of Old Spain, and in the independence of the American
colonies, and hope that both may free themselves from that misrule
and oppression with which they have been cursed for centuries past,
under former Governments.
The indecorous language used throughout the letters of the Minister
of Spain, and the foul charges therein contained in relation to myself,
cannot but be viewed as the grossest insult to my Government, to



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 343
the American People, and to the Officer whom he has endeavored to
cover with odium and disgrace. It is derogatory to that comity and
decorum which should always characterise diplomatic communications,
and which are essential to the harmony and friendly intercourse of
Nations. In reply, I confidently trust, that the President of the
United States will take such a stand, as shall secure the respect, due
from foreign Ministers to his exalted station, to the Officers of the
Government, and to the nation over which he presides.
It is a subject of remark, that I have been the object of Spanish
calumny and virulent animadversion ever since the transactions of
the Seminole War. This spirit of hostility is to be discovered in the
observation of Governor Mahy to Co' Forbes, in the letter of the
latter to the Secretary of State, of the 28th of May 1821;” in the
protests of Colonels Coppinger and Callava, and has pervaded all
the diplomatic communications of Spanish Ministers subsequent
to the period to which I have alluded. Although such a course is
insulting to myself, to the Executive and to the American People,
I have never deemed it of sufficient importance to induce me to
complain. Feeling a confidence in having always discharged my
duty, whilst in the service of my country, I disregarded the abuse
and vituperation of Spanish Agents, from a belief that my Govern-
ment would vindicate its honor and dignity. This I flatter myself
will yet be accomplished in due time. The considerable portion of
my life has been devoted to the happiness, honor and glory of my
country, and where my conduct has met the approbation of the
Government, I have a right to expect that it will resist any attempt
to slander my reputation. Notwithstanding I solicit the most free
and unrestrained investigation into all the measures of my public
life, by those to whom I am responsible, it is conceived, that the same
latitude should not be granted to the ministers of foreign powers.
Such an interference is rude and indecorous, and should be resented
on all proper occasions. This, it is believed, is not due to me alone,
but to the President and the Nation.” -
* NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, V), with Mahy's letter enclosed, printed, A. S. P.,
For. Rels., IV, 746—747.
* Answered post, p. 367. See also Jackson to Worthington, Jan. 18, 1822 (LC,
Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M), requesting copies of correspondence
relating to the seizure of the archives of St. Augustine, and Walton to Jackson,
Feb. 22, 1822 (loc. cit.), transmitting Bell's correspondence with Coppinger.
In a letter from Jackson to the President, Jan. 22, 1822 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr.
Papers, X; printed, Bassett, ed., Corr. Jackson, III, 143), he requested that his res-
ignation be cancelled pending a full investigation of his administration. See also
post, p. 350.



344 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
I am Sir, with Sentiments of great respect, y' M Obt & Huble Sert.
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE, JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State of the U.S.
City of Washington
[Endorsed) Jackson Andrew Nashville, 22 Jan.: 1822 Recd 7 feby.
concerning the Archives in East Florida.
[Enclosure: ALS)
Robert Butler to Andrew Jackson *
HERMITAGE Jonuary 21* 1822.
SIR, On receiving the correspondence between Colo: Forbes and
the Capt General of Cuba I find a promise on the part of the latter,
that; the Governor of East Florida would be ordered to deliver over
the Archives to the American Authorities, and this duty not having
been performed I consider it proper to advise you that in the month
of June last Colo: Coppinger late Governor of East Florida stated
to me in a conference had on the Subject of the delivery of the Archives
relating to individual property, that as an individual he believed
they should be given over to the United States, but that his orders
prevented him from turning them over—I mentioned to him that I
had heard a report as a reason for not turning them over, that it
would be the interest of the United States to destroy them, and re-
marked that I regarded not the source from whence it came as it could
alone spring from the most wicked and unprincipled heart—As there
appears an absence of good faith in the execution of the late Treaty
I give you this information, for the benefit of the Government—
I have the honor to be, Very respectfully; Yº M* Ob. St.
ROBERT BUTLER
late U: S: Commissioner in East Florida
MAJ. GENL ANDREW JACKSON
[Endorsed] Col" R. Butlers note January 21* 1822–EE with
General Jackson's Letter of 22 January 1822.
t-
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS*]
WASHINGTON CITY Jany 25* 1822.
SIR, I had the honor to command the detachment of of the United
States troops on the 10° of July 1821, the day on which an exchange
* Other enclosures include Jackson to Bell, Sept. 1, 1821, id. to Worthington,
Aug. 13, 1821, and other correspondence pertinent to the seizure of archives and
other matters, which are printed in A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, following the text of
Jackson's letter of Jan. 22, 1822.
* Printed also in A. S. P., For. Rels., iv, 792.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 345
of flags took place at S*Augustine the Capital of East Florida, under
the late treaty with Spain *—On the day following, I was by commis-
sion from General Jackson Governor of the Floridas, vested with all
the powers of the late Spanish Governor, Coppinger, which commission
I received thro’ the hands of the American commissioner, Colonel
Butler, with other documents and instructions for my government in
the discharge of the duties of provisional secretary of the province
until the arrival of M* Worthington, who had been duly appointed by
the President of the United States; Col. Butler the commissioner
shortly after set out for Pensacola–Among the documents left by him
for my government & information were extracts of the official corre-
spondence between the two commissioners on the subject of the
Archeives & documents relating to individual property & the inhabi-
tants of the province—by which it was agreed that they were not to
be removed from Sº Augustine, but to remain precisely as they were
until the doubts arising on the part of the Spanish commissioner should
by reference to the Spanish Authorities on his part and to the American
Authorities at Washington on the part of the American commissioner
be settled.—No inventory of the archives, documents & papers was
ever made to my knowledge, none was delivered to me by Col. Butler—
After his departure a number of the inhabitants waited on me to know
the situation in which the archives & documents relative property &
rights in the province had been left by the American commissioner
and if he had obtained possession of them—on being informed that
they were said to be in the possession of the Escribano, a spanish
notary & officer, until the doubts arising as to the delivery of them,
should be settled by the respective Spanish & American Authorities—
they appeared greatly dissatisfied, expressed themselves in a manner
& in terms which led me to believe they had no confidence in the
spanish Officers, and finding no inventory had been made of the
archives, declared from their knowledge of the manner in which those
documents were filed, there was no security that the whole of the
documents would ever be delivered—that important papers might be
sent to the Havanna, if not already sent, that others might be placed
on the files—in fact that the door was open to almost every species
of fraud in the office by which individuals rights would be violated and
the public lands be granted away without the possibility of detection—
They strongly advised me for the above reasons to take possession of
them—this I informed them I was not authorized to do, that things
must remain as they were until I received further instructions—Boxes
were already made in which these documents were to have packed, to
be sent to the Havanna, but they were in the public store and under
my charge—A Spanished Armed Schooner sailed sometime after the
transports with the troops, for the Havanna as also did another
* Ante, p. 111.



346 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
vessel which carried the Treasurer of the Province, it was said many
boxes supposed to contain documents were taken by this Officer—
The whole of the Archive or bureau of the City Engineer which con-
tained important documents relating to individual rights in the city,
public squares & vacant lands was removed or not found—At the
time of taking possession of the documents & papers found in the
offices of the late Gov' Coppinger & Escribano, there was a vessel
almost ready to sail for the Havanna, boxes were ready in the gover-
nors house in which the documents found in his office were to have
been placed, this I believe he admits in his Protest. Altho' the papers
have been seized, a sufficient examination has not been had to deter-
mine if all are there which were expected to be found—I frequently
heard the persons appointed to examine them say that they did not
find in the governors office those papers which are usually kept in his
office—Whether any were removed after the 23* June which were em-
braced in the correspondence, I am not able to say, I have no reason
to believe there were, altho' the inhabitants interested were constantly
complaining of the situation in which they were left, and were paying
great fees to the officer, to obtain evidences of their papers being in
the office—I must further state that the Notary Don Juan de Entralgo
had declined to take the oath of allegeaince to our government—that
Govr Coppinger was respectfully applied to by me to deliver up the
papers peaceably, before any resort was had to force, and when the
papers were put into the hands of certain persons appointed to examine
them with diretions to separate private papers from documents relat-
ing to the province Gov' Coppinger was given to understand that he
or any agent on his behalf might attend the examination—As far as
the examination has proceeded, many papers have been separated
from the public documents, put into boxes, and reported to M' Worth-
ington for the purpose of being returned—By the citizens having
property and residing within the Province, the conduct of the Ameri-
can officers in taking the papers was generally approved of.
Most respectfully, I am, Sir, Your ob' Serº
JN° R. BELL
HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Bell John R. Wasn—25 January 1822. Recd 30th.
Surrender of East Florida. John R. Bell—



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 347
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO
ANDREW JACKSON 34
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
PENSACOLA Jamy 28–1822.
MY DEAR GENERAL. I do myself the honor to acknowledge the
receipt of your letter of the 12* of December, * and I assure you it was
not without great mortification I found that from the unaccountable
irregularity of the mail, so few of my letters had reached you, for I
have not suffered but one mail to pass without writing. Within the
last two or three weeks the arrival and departure of the mail has been
several times changed at this place, so that there is no calculating with
any certainty upon it.
Nothing of any consequence has occurred since my last. The en-
closed copy of a letter addressed by me to Col: Crowell,” will shew
that the uneasiness of the Indians still continues. I have not yet
heard from Nea-moth-la and the Chiefs to whom I addressed a talk
some time ago, and begin to be somewhat apprehensive that an acci-
dent may have happened to the runners by whom it was sent.
The Spanish Officers * are still in confinement, and I am sorry to
say that this circumstance has had a tendency to keep up the disatis-
faction of the Spanish inhabitants, when I thought the leniency of the
course adopted would have disarmed them, but it does not appear
practicable to satisfy them, and I therefore look upon their displeasure
with indifference.
Fromentin has been veering and turning about, of late, like a
weathercock. Instead of going to New Orleans, he had determined to
go on to Washington in the Hornet, it is now said that he is going to
stay, after having given up his house, and shipped off his furniture to
New Orleans.” It is said he is about to organize his Court at last,
* Enclosed in a letter of Mar. 8, 1822, from Jackson to the Secretary of State.
* LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
* Not present.
* Early in Jan. 1822 two Spanish officers, Marcos de Williers and Arnaldo
Guillemard, who had left Pensacola in obedience to Jackson's proclamation of
Sept. 29, 1821 (printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 813–814), returned there from Havana
to settle their private affairs and remove their families. They were arrested by
Acting Governor Walton and placed in confinement in their homes. For perti-
nent correspondence and a petition from the two Spaniards to Walton, claiming
their arrest to be a violation of the fifth article of the treaty which permitted them
to dispose of their property before removing, see A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 800–802.
A memorial by these Spanish officers was presented to the House of Representatives
on Feb. 20, 1822, and referred to the Committee on Military Affairs, from which
it was laid on the table on Mar. 2 (House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 281,290,
292, 307; NA, HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.) See also post, p. 403.
* Fromentin himself wrote the Secretary of State, Jan. 29, 1822 (NA, SD,
Fla. Terr. Papers, x), renouncing the proposed trip to Washington, and on Apr. 2
he wrote from New Orleans authorizing William H. Winder to receive his salary



348 T E R R ITO RIA L PAP E R S
and in imitation of Judge Duval, deliver a charge to a Grand Jury.
He is too contemptible to deserve any notice.
In my last I informed you that an attempt was made to go into a
re-hearing of the case of Innerarity: a “Bill of Review,” as it was
called was presented to me, and was received in the manner you will
discover from the enclosed copy of my decree.” It was to be expected
that he would die hard, but die he must, and it only remains for the
Sheriff to do his duty, perhaps the task would more properly belong
to the hangman.
Gen' Gaines arrived here a few days ago, and is about to sail for St
Marks—The Officers of the Engineer Corps have not yet left this
place. A very splendid entertainment was given by Capt." Henley on
board the Hornet, and the Citizens are about to give him one in return
this evening at Austin's.
I fondly anticipate the pleasure of seeing my much valued friend
Easter here in a few days—Present my best respects to M*Jackson
& Miss Hays—and also to Mess' Donaldson * & Rutledge.”
Irenew my dear General the assurances of my unalterable devotion
to you.
GEO WALTON
[Endorsed] Col. Walton to General Jackson.
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF EAST
FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS)
[Referred January 28, 1822)
Memorial of the Citizens and Inhabitants of East Florida—To the
Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled.—
Your memorialists hail with exultation and gratitude that they
have at last been permitted to participate in some of the high privi-
leges and advantages secured to them under the Constitution of the
Union.
But they regret that ever since the 10” of last July when this
Province was ceded to the United States * their condition has been
from the Treasury (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). He was paid his salary as Judge for
the period May 18, 1821–June 1, 1822 in the sum of $1,557.53 (NA, GAO, Fifth
Auditor's Repts., No. 2., p. 234).
89 Not found.
* Presumably, Andrew Jackson Donelson.
* Edward A. Rutledge, who had served as translator and interpreter for
Governor Jackson in Florida, from May 12 until Aug. 1, 1821. A receipt signed
by Rutledge for $240 pay for 80 days' service is in LC (Jackson Papers, Mil.
Papers, Bk. 13).
* Ante, p. 110.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 349
very unenviable—They have borne with this State of things because
they were confident it would be of a very temporary and short
duration—
In this remark it is not intended to reflect either on the wisdom of
our Government at Washington or on the Officers who have been
appointed to this Country—It is taken for granted that every thing
was intended for the best.—They only wish to be disenthralled from
the anomalous and uncongenial situation, to which they have been
consigned.
They think they may in a great measure be releived, by Congress
advancing them to the second grade of our Territorial Governments
in the same manner as such Governments are accustomed to be
advanced and organized under the Laws of the United States.
They confidently trust that Congress will see the justice and neces-
sity of the Florida's being organized under one Territorial Govern-
ment with the power of having Executive, Legislative and Judiciary
Officers of that Territory.
Your memorialists are aware that neither St. Augustine, nor
Pensacola are so situated as to afford ease and convenience to the
Inhabitants of the Floridas to assemble at, in their Legislative
Capacity.
But there can be no impropriety in confiding to the Governor or
to special Commissioners the power, forthwith, to select some more
central point.
It is well known if we judge from American Enterprize, it is no
objection that there be not at this moment a City built in the heart
of the Floridas—When the permanent or temporary Metropolis shall
be once designated, then, before thier labor & industry the Desert
will blossom as the Rose and the still and houseless plain, as by the
Genius of Magic, become the Crowded City of business and Learning—
Your Memorialists do most seriously recommend the consolidation
of the Two Provinces, as of vital importance not only to themselves
but to the Union.—
Reposing in the Wisdom and Integrity of Congress, they submit
this most important Petition to their serious consideration, trusting
they will afford not only the relief specifically prayed, but extend
them, such further aid and asisstance as in their virtue and foresight
they may deem liberal and just.—
Signed—
W. G. D. Worthington Jn.” Du'Bose
J. G. Forbes Corbin Braxton
A. Gay John Brikley
Cha" Robion Tho. H. Penn.
D. Copp. Gabl Win Perpall
Fran" J: fatio. Joseph M. Hernandez



350 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Fran"o P. Sanchez
J Rodman
Jn° Drysdale
Edmund Law
Wm P. DuVal
G. A. Gaither
Carlos Gobert
W* Reynolds
C. Zully
William Robertson
Joseph S. Sanchez
S. Streeter
James G. Tingle
Alfred W. Hynes
George Fleming
Jnº. Pyles
John Marshall
P. Lynch
Sam" Fairbank
Wm. Bartlett
C Menard
Wm Starkweather
W* Levingston
Josiah D. Hart
Ezek" Hudnall
John N. McRae
John Johnson
Peter M. Finlay
Charles Vignoles
Andrew Burgevin
[Endorsed] East Florida Memorial of the citizens & inhabitants of
East-Florida Jany. 28–1822 Refº to the Committee of the Whole
on Bill N° 51.* Territorial gov" Wright “ 16, 28 CW on bill Florida
ANDREW JACKSON TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:LS “]
HERMITAGE near Nashville January 29* 1822.
DEAR SIR, Your letter of date the 31* of December * last (Post-
marked the 9” of this present month at the City of Washington),
acknowledging the receipt of my resignation as Governor of the
Floridas forwarded by Doctor Bronough, has reached and advises me,
that the same has been accepted by you.
To be freed from the toil and labour of a Public Office, is what I
have long desired, and what indeed, the state of my health and other
causes rendered necessary: But as it appears that there is none of
my public life but what must be traversed by Congress, and having
long since requested Mº Adams to lay before you the correspondence
with Judge Fromentin, from a wish that it might have been submitted
to Congress if thought necessary; I did confidently hope, that before
the acceptance of my resignation, this correspondence would have been
produced, and that with the investigation of all and every part of my
conduct, my enemies might have had no grounds to charge me with
resigning through fear of impeachment, as M* Whitman and some
other members have illiberally and untruly insinuated on the floor
of Congress on the 2* Inst.,” when supporting his resolution for a
48 House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 188.
* Robert Wright, a Representative in Congress from Maryland.
* Copy in LC (Jackson Papers, Lets. and Orders, Bk. M).
* Ante, p. 316.
47 House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 108–109. Rep. Ezekiel Whitman, of Maine.



F L OR I. D.A. T E R R I TOR Y 351
call for those papers: I therefore sincerely regret that those papers
were not laid before Congress agreeably to my request, and before
the call made by M. Whitman.
The moment I saw the Intelligencer of the 2" Instant, I wrote you
to suspend the acceptance of my resignation,” until this investigation
was complete—Not having at that time any intimation of either its
receipt or acceptance, from you or the Secretary of State, and fully
believing, that if you found Congress had a wish to investigate my
conduct, you would have witheld its acceptance under circumstances
which were disagreeable to me, and at least, until there was oppor-
tunity of meeting the attempts which are made, to stamp my conduct
with unworthiness and dishonor.
I addressed a note also to the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives,” stating these facts to him, and requesting him to communicate
them to that Body, with assurance on my part, that I was ready and
willing to meet and plead generally to any charges that might be
brought against me.
My wishes and hopes not having been realised, but the acceptance of
my resignation having been forwarded by you, seven days after M"
Whitman's resolution calling for the papers had been passed, leaves
but one course for me to pursue, and that is, such course as I may
deem, justice, to myself, and the American nation, may require under
all circumstances.
I have to repeat the request made to the Secretary of State, that
my accounts be closed by the Department, information given to what
time my Postage and Stationary accounts ought to be made up to,
and to whom the ballance of the funds in my hands are to be turned
over, and what directions hereafter are to be given to the Public letters
addressed to me from the Floridas
I make you a tender of my thanks, for the very flattering manner
of approbation, which you have been pleased to express of all my
Public acts, and services; and the friendly expressions of solicitude
for my individual health and happiness, I sincerely reciprocate
I am, Dr Sir y' Mo Obt Servant
ANDREW JACKSON
JAMES MONROE President of the U States—
[Endorsed] Jan’ 29. 1822 Gen' Jackson to J Monroe complaining—
affair with Mr Fromentin—acceptance of resignation &c
was unsuccessful in his efforts to get Congress to take up the question of Jackson's
conduct in Florida (Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 sess., cols. 534, 558–559,
610–619, 620, 826–828, 1155–1164). William S. Archer, of Virginia, likewise
failed to secure the adoption of a resolution censuring Jackson and the President
(ibid., cols. 614, 1161–1162, 1195–1196).
* Jan. 22, 1822, printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 143.
* The reply of Speaker Barbour, dated Feb. 9, 1822, is printed, Bassett (ed.),
op. cit., p. 148 m.



352 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY JOHN W. SIMONTON AND
ASSOCIATES
[NA:SF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
[January 31, 1822)
To the Honourable the Senate & House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled—
The Memorial of John W. Simonton * of the Island of Cayo
Huesso or Key West in the province of East Florida Merchant and
his Associates, beg leave respectfully to inform your Honourable
Body that they have purchased and formed a considerable Settle-
ment on said Island which is situated in North Latitude 24°27 and
Longitude 82° West of Greenwich immediately on the Edge of the
Florida Stream about 75 Miles due North from the Havana and
quite contiguous to most of the out ports on the North Side of Cuba
where the greatest proportion of those piratical Boats which have so
infested this coast have been fitted out—it affords a Harbour large
and commodious perfectly easy of access and quite Safe for Wessels
of any Size also an abundance of Fresh Water and Wood—We
humbly conceive an Establishment at this Island would be of great
importance to Governm" as well as to the Merchants of the United
States 1* As a Rendevous for our Wessels of War it being one of the
most commanding places on the Florida coast for the protection of
that very large proportion of American Commerce carried on thro
the Gulf of Mexico—It would also be one of the most convenient
places for Wessels to touch at bound to or from the Atlantic States
thro' said Gulf in case of Distress which too frequently happens
when they have no other resource than a port in the Island of Cuba
where they are obliged to incur very heavy expenses—2”—It is the
only eligible situation for a Depot for Wrecked property it being
within four Miles of the Florida Reef where so many Vessels of all
Nations are driven on shore and about half way between Cape
Florida and the Dry Tortugas—We are at this time wholy dependant
on the wreck[ers] of New Providence for the protection of our prop-
erty in case of shipwreck and when that occurs the property is car-
ried to New Providence which affords a living to more than Five
hundred persons employs fifty or Sixty Wessels, produces a large
Revenue to that Government and is of great pecuniary advantage
to the Merchants of that place—
* John Weston Simonton was a merchant of New Jersey, who purchased the
island of Key West Dec. 20, 1821, from Juan P. Salas and settled there Jan.
19, 1822. The Spanish grant which Simonton had purchased was confirmed by
the Board of Land Commissioners for E. Fla. on Dec. 14, 1825 (A. S. P., Pub.
Lands, IV, 705–707; H. R. S., Fla., Spanish Land Grants in Fla., v, 83–90; Jeffer-
son B. Browne, Key West, the Old and the New [St. Augustine, 1912) pp. 7, 199–200;
and for documents relative to early activities of Americans on the island as well
as the history of the grant, see H. Rept. 189, 30 Cong., 1 sess.).



F L OR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 353
Indepenant of the advantages already enumerated the Salt ponds
of this Island are numerous and extensive and it is supposed by
competent Judges that Salt enough may be made for a large portion
of the supply required by the United States—They your Memorial-
ists would also beg permission to state that they have already in-
curred considerable expense in building and making other improve-
ments and are at this time erecting a Tower or fortification forty
feet square to be built of stone at the entrance of said Harbour for
the protection of such property as may be sent there which will in
all probability be completed in the course of three months—They
also request permission to state that a number of respectable Mer-
chants and others from different parts of the United States are
making arrangements to establish themselves on said Island that
from its contiguity to the West Indies and particularly the ports on
the North Side of Cuba and the great facilities afforded by its local
position to Smuggling they apprehend that all the precaution which
your Memorialists can use will be insufficient to prevent much illicit
Commerce—Your Memorialists notwithstanding the appearance of
prematureness deem the reasons above mentioned sufficient to justify
them in praying your Honourable Bodies to make Key West a port
of Entry—And your Memorialists will every pray"—
J W SIMONTON in behalf of the Memorialist
Havana, January 31. 1822
[Endorsed] 104 17 Cong 1 Sess L. Memorial of John W. Simonton
and his associates, who have formed a settlement on the island of
Key West in East Florida, praying that the same may be made a port
of entry. 1822 Feb. 20 Read and refd to Com. Finance * April 2
Commº discharged “
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
Executive Department East Florida,
ST AUGUSTINE Feb. 1" 1822–
SIR-I enclose you a Register of the officers in this Province, since
my assuming, the duties of the station, to which the President & Genl.
Jackson appointed me—
I also enclose an account of W* Reynolds,” whom, I found here on
my arrival employed as private Secretary, to the Officer commissioned
by General Jackson, to administer the affairs of this Government, till
* Accompanying this petition is a memorandum by Simonton, printed post p.411.
* Senate Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 141.
* Ibid., p. 239.
* Not present.
801867–57—24



354 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
I should reach this place. As I was appointed Acting Governor,
virtually, and was convinced that, it was impossible for me without
employing a person to copy & translate papers for me, to organize the
temporary Government & carry on the double correspondence which
I deemed necessary, with the different Heads of the State & War
Departments at Washington & with the Captain General at Pensacola,
I continued Mr Reynolds; * But told him candidly, that I was not
authorised or empowered to appoint or employ a Private Secretary,
that if he chose to continue in that situation under me, he must run
the risk of receiving any compensation from the Government of the
United States as I, could make no agreement or guarantee on the
subject—He said it was not so much the pecuniary compensation, as
the benefit which might result to him, in being continued that made
him anxious on the subject—it might have the effect of bringing
him into public view & be introductory to something profitable
& permanent—
Under all views, I thought it best to continue him all the month
past—And should liked to have still kept him in office—But as the
duties of my situation since I have, within a few days discontinued
writing Pensacola; & this Government being organized; leaves me,
perhaps, with a little assistance, sufficient time to discharge all the
duties which devolve on me, without employing, formally a private
Secretary, I have requested Mr Reynolds, to wind up his office, and he
has enclosed me this account Marked A.—I have made a few observa-
tions in the account itself—A view to public economy has induced me
to take this step—and until exſyſ S. torn] authorized to fill it, shall
[MS. torn] leave the office of private Secretary, vacant.
With distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & acting Governor of [MS. torn] Florida
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] The Honble John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington DC
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—Recd 24th.
* Reynolds received the sum of $99.00 for service as interpreter and private
secretary to Capt. John R. Bell for the period July 18-Aug. 19, 1821, at the rate
of three dollars per day (NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Repts., No. 2, p. 235, certified
June 25, 1822). He received this appointment July 18, 1821 (Bell to Reynolds,
July 18, 1821, NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, v). He was subsequently justice of
the peace, St. John's County, and register of naturalization (post, pp. 359, 362).
He was commissioned member of first Legislative Council (post, p. 422). See
also post, p. 566.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 355
[Enclosure]
Register of Public Officials of East Florida
[February 1, 1822]
The Civil and Military Government of East Florida, as it was at
and since the 20° August 1821, on which day W. G. D. Worthington,
Secretary and Acting Governor, assumed the Administration of the
affairs of that Province up the 1* of Feb. 1822–
Executive Department
Names of Officers Where Born " Remarks
Andrew Jackson Govt of | Sº Carolina | I have heard of his resigna-
the Floridas &c &c.— | Last from tion but I know nothing
Tennessee of it officially—
W. G. D. Worthington | Maryland He has never receiv,d one
Secº and Acting Gov" cent as fees or emmolu-
of East Florida "7 ments he expects all in his
salary—
W* Reynolds Pennsylvania M* Reynolds was employ"
Private Secretary by the provisional Secre-
tary Cap" Bell, and con-
tinued by Mº Worthington
and no salary fixed—&
discontinued by Mr
Worthington so soon as he
found his services not
indispensible—On which
he claimed $1 50/100 per
day while employed—
* Two columns follow this one. Headed “Salary” and “Fees” they are blank
and are omitted to save space.
* Paid the sum of $1500 for services as Secretary of E. Fla., for the period
May 18, 1821—Apr. 1, 1822 (NA, GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 1130 [1823]).



356 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Judicial Department
Names of Officers Where Born Remarks
William P. DuVal Kentucky
District Judge *
James. G. Forbes Florida Fees little or nothing—Col
Marshall " Forbes tho' Born in Sº
Augustine East Florida, has
resided for a long time in
New York—
John G. Bird Georgia dead.
District Atty tº
Greenbury A. Gaither Maryland | Pro. tem. vice M. Bird dec"
District Atty." appointed by W. G. D.
Worthington with the appro-
bation of Judge DuVal—He
comes from Ky—but I be-
lieve was born in Md—
James S. Tingle Clerk | Virginia
Antelmo Gay France Fees as per Ordinance—
Interpreter &
Translator *
John Law—Bailiff England
David Walker Crier Scotland
* Paid, as Judge in E. Fla., the sum of $1,375 for the period May 18, 1821—Apr.
17, 1822 (NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept., No. 2, p. 234, certified June 25, 1822).
The date of DuVal's commission as Governor of Florida Territory was Apr. 17,
1822 (post, p. 469).
* Although fees constituted part of the pay of a U. S. Marshal, Forbes was
paid the sum of $1,582 for services rendered on his mission to Havana, Cuba, in
connection with the surrender of the Floridas (NA, loc. cit.).
* There was paid the estate of Bird the sum of $500 for services and travel
expenses (loc. cit., p. 235). -
•l Paid the sum of $78.80 for services as U. S. District Attorney for E. Fla. for
the period Dec. 4, 1821—Apr. 25, 1822 (loc. cit.). See post, p. 566.
* Paid the sum of $244.62 for receiving, examining, and separating Spanish
archives and documents (loc. cit., p. 449, certified Aug. 23, 1823).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 357
Court of the County of Sº Johns
Names of Officers Where Born Remarks
Thomas Fitch Massachusetts || Dead. The Judges for
Presiding Justice every order in decree out
of court 50 cts and for
trying a cause and enter-
ing Judgment each $1.00
as p’ ord"
John Beckley Press S” Carolina
Justice vice Fitch decº
Philo Andrews—Press Mass— Resigned
Justice vice Beckley
remov" out of the
Province
Thomas H. Penn " Florida Presiding Justice vice An-
drews—according to Sen-
iority under the ordinance
last from Georgia.
Greenbury A Gaither * | Maryland Resign'd—Heisfrom Ky—
George Murray" Virginia vice Gaither—
Thomas Reynolds
Farquair Bethune Florida
Since the resignation of Judge Andrews there is now one
vacancy—This Court is very unpopular—but I felt myself
bound to support it & it has had great effect—
George Murray Pros"
Atty
John Rodman Pros"Atty
George Gibbs Clerk
James R Hanham
High Sheriff
Gamaliel Darling
High Constable
Virginia
N. York
England
England
N York
Five dollars for each con-
viction—resign'd
Pro. tem. vice Murray—
Fees according to Gen"
Jackson's ordinance
Appointed by Gen' Jack-
son. fees according to Or-
dinance &c
Fees as per Ordinance—
resign'd
* Penn's receipt, dated Apr. 6, 1824, for the sum of $100 in payment of services
as Judge, St. Johns County (Sept. term 1821–Jan. term 1822, inclusive) is in NA
(GAO, Dipl. and Cons. Recs., No. 1576 [1824]).
* Paid the sum of $90 as Judge of St. Johns County Court for a period of eighteen
days (NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 449).
* Paid the sum of $185 as act. Judge in W. Fla (NA, GAO, Dipl. and Cons.
Recs. No. 1210 (1824).



358
T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Court of the County of Sº Johns—Con.
Names of Officers Where Born Remarks
William Dawson Georgia Fees &c. vice Darling
High Constable
Juan de Entralgo Spain Objected to take the Oath
One of the Judges to support Constitution
U. S. &c and declined
Ruperto Savedra Spain Objected to take the Oath
One of the Judges
[Blank] Bailiff
[Blank] Crier
&c and declined
Corporation Appointments for
St Augustine *
James G Forbes Mayor
Daniel Copp
Antonio Tryai (Triay]
Antelme Gay
Bernardo Segui
Philo Andrews
Charles Robion
Francisco Reyes
John du Bose
Fran" J Fatio
George Murray Clerk
William Robinson
Edmund Law
John Rodman.
Edwd R. Gibson
[Blank] Alden
John du Bose
Abm Eustis
Peter Mitchell
Chester Sully
Wm. M Gibson
Florida
Connecticut
Florida
France—
Spain
Massachusetts
St Domingo
Spain
S” Carolina
Florida
Virginia
Scotland
Dist Colº
N. York
Maryland
Maine
So Carolina
Massachusetts
Scotland
England
Georgia
He is last from New York
Dead.
Resgº
Resg"
Resg"
Resg" gone to Cuba
Resg"
Resg" as Alderman &
apptd Clk vice Murray
Declined accepting
declined
declined
declined
* Mr Worthington, offered the Mayoralty & places of aldermen to the Spanish
Subjects whom he found in office—But they declined it, Because, they were not
prepared to take the oath to support the Constitution of the U States—with the
solitary exception of F. J. Fatio, whom he immediately reappointed, the others
retired of their own accord—He afterwards offered to put half Spaniards Mr
Segui, Tryai & Reyes—They declined for the same reason—Not prepared to
take the Oath &c—[Marginal note on the MS.]



FLORIDA. T E R RI TOR Y
359
Justices of the Peace for St Johns County
Names of Officers
Where Born
Remarks
John duPose
William G Davis
Evaristo Mauri
Frans P Fatio 67
James Hall
Ezekiel Hudnall
John Edwards
John Addison
A. H. M*Gilvary
W* Drummond
W* Reynolds—
Sº Carolina
So Carolina
Pennsylvania
Italy
Florida
N. Hampshire
Virginia
Ireland
Florida
Pa
Fees as per Ordinance
Removed out of the Prov-
ince
Commission recalled by
Gov" Worthington—
Refus’d to act
Declin’d acting
Appointed on being dis-
continued as Private
Secretary to the Acting
Governor
Board of Health
M. Stone—Resd" Physi-
cian and Pres' of the
B° of Health.
Wm H. Simmons Pres”
B4 of Health -
J. P. C. MºMahon Pres”
Bq of Health & Resd"
Physician -- . . . . .
The board of Aldermen
Ex-officio-members.
Richard Murray Health
Officer
sº Carolina
Massachusetts
Ireland
Dead. .
Declined acting
Fees as prordinance &c
Fees as prord” &c
* Paid the sum of $125 as associate judge, St. Johns County for 23 days service,
to Mar. 27, 1822 (NA, GAO, Dipl. and Cons. Recs., No. 1828 [1823]),



360
T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Board of Pilotage
Names of Officers
Where Born
Remarks
John Rodman Pres. of
B” of Pilotage
W* Reynolds
George §:Member
Pilots for
the Bar
and Harbor
of St Au-
gustine
John Walton
John Andrew
N York
Pennsylvania
England
Officers of the Customs
John Rodman Coll. N. York
of the Customs
Rd. S. Hackley Inspecter | W* Not yet come in
Geo. Gibbs Inspecter England pro-tem vice M*
Hackley—Long time
in N. Carolina, but
last from New York
Surveyors “
Geo. K Gibbs N. Carolina Dead
Patrick Lynch Ireland
Charles Vignoles Ireland
Alfred W Hynes Kentucky vice Gibbs—
Translators and Interpreters of the Spanish & French languages
F. J. Fatio
Antelm Gay
Charles Gobert
Charles Vignoles
Florida
France
France
Ireland
Resgº
* Governor Worthington appointed these officers merely to designate them as
worthy of confidence—[Marginal note on the MS.]



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 361
Alcalde
Names of Officers Where Born Remarks
Edmund Law " Dis' Colº He is by Genl Jacksons
Alcalde &c Ordinance Notary, Reg-
ister of wills, Recorder of
Deeds, Judge of Probates,
Keeper of the Archives,
Justice of the Peace &c.—
Notaries Public
Tho" H Penn Florida
in Sº Augustine
Farquair Bethune Florida
in Amelia Island
Auctioners
A. H. M*Gilvary S” Carolina Resgº
Peter Menard France
Charles Robion St Domingo
Harbour Master
Harbour Master Vacant
Port Warden Vacant
Peter Farnham Keeper | Connecticut Resigned—
of the L* House St
Augustine—
Wm. Brown Do Vice Farnham—
Postmaster of the U. States
Thos H Penn Vice Florida
[Blank] Beers—
resigned—
* Paid the sum of $115 as Judge of St. Johns County Court, Mar. 4–27, 1822
(NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 234, certified June 25, 1822).



362 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Military Establishment at St Augustine
Names of Officers Where Born
Abraham Eustis
Lt Co" Comms
Military Establishment at Fernandina, Amelia Island
Names of Officers Where Born Remarks
[Blank] Payne "Cap'
Miscellaneous Appointments By the Secretary and Acting Governor "
John R Bell James G. Forbes & Edmund Law Commissioners to
demand & take the Archives &c.—
Messrs Bird & Gay Clks to that Comm.
Messrs Bethune Lynch & Reynolds Secretaries to that Commn... Mr
Gay added vice Bethune absent—
W* Reynolds. Pº Register of Naturalization under Genl Jackson's
Ordinance, after being discontinued as private Secretary
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO MATTHEW C. PERRY
[NA:ND,SN Lets, to Officers Ships of War, Bk. 147s) - ---
NAVY DEPARTMENT Feby 7th 1822
LT: COMDT: M. C. PERRY U. S. Schr Shark New York
SIR I enclose to you the Copy of a description of “Key West,”
a small Island on the edge of the Florida Stream seventy five miles North
by West from Havanna, about midway between the dry Tortugas &
Cape Florida; ” and I wish you to proceed in the nearest route from
New York to that place for the purpose of making an examination
of the Island, its harbours, its extent, and the dangers of navigation;
and report to me as early as practicable every information you shall
acquire with a view to further measures for its occupation; and for the
70 Matthew M. Payne, of Va.
” Additional spaces are provided for miscellaneous appointments “By the Dis-
trict Court,” “By the Court of St Johns County,” “By the City Council of St
Augustine,” and “By the Collector of the Customs of St Augustine.” They are
blank.
7” Printed also in H. Rept. 792, 29 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 10–11; H. Rept. 189,
30 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 14–15,
* Not present.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 363
establishment of a port of Rendezvous & for Commerce should the
description be verified by you In this first visit to the Island it will
not be necessary to take actual Surveys; but merely report to the
Department the real situation of the Island as above mentioned.
Should find the Island situated as it is described; and it shall in
your judgement be necessary, you are authorized to take possession
of it in the name of the United States; and if you think proper, leave
a Midshipman or other suitable Officer, with one man, to retain
possession until further orders; provided they can be sheltered and
made comfortable and safe for the time, until aid can be furnished
to them.
You may also give notice to our Commanders, if you shall find good
water, safe Anchorage &", that they may make further examination
by calling there occasionally.—
After having performed this Service, you will proceed to cruise
around Cuba, and in the Gulf of Mexico, for the protection of our
commerce & in pursuance of the general instructions for the sup-
pression of the Slave trade & punishment of the crime of Piracy.”
I am respectfully &" S. T.
P. S. The leaving of any persons on the Island is to depend upon
the decision as to the utility; & you will take care to call and take
them off again before the termination of your cruise.
ABRAHAM EUSTIS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE, 12” Feby 1822–
SIR-I have the honor to communicate to you, that I have this day
been informed, by gentlemen of unquestionable veracity, that a person
named Aaron Smith, formerly of Litchfield, Conn. is now engaged
with a gang of between twenty & thirty ax-men in cutting Cedar on
the U. S. land bordering on the River St John near Buena Vista, &
about forty miles from this place. The party came, as I understand
in a large Schooner, from New York, which they are now loading.
I do not consider it my duty to interfere in this business without
instructions; but think it proper that the information be communicated
to the Government.
I am with high respect your humble servant
ABR" EUSTIS
HoN. J. C. CALHOUN Secy of War—
[Addressed] Hon. John. C. Calhoun Secretary of War Washington
[Postmarked] S*Augustine 12 Feby 1822 Free
*Answered post, p. 385.



364 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Endorsed] Sº Augustine 12 Feby 1822 Col. A. Eustis U. S. A.
Reports. a gang of men engaged in cutting down Cedar on the U.
States lands & about sending it to New York. See Inside from Navy
Dep. Mar. 6. 1822 ” Submitted for the consideration of the Secty of
the Navy J. C. C
ANDREW JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
NASHVILLE February 13* 1822
SIR, I yesterday received from M* Maury Agent of Disbursements
in your Department information of the final settlement of my ac-
counts " as Commissioner to receive and as Governor of the Floridas,
with directions to deposit the balance of money in my hands to the
credit of the Treasury of the U States in their Branch at New Orleans.
All this has been done with the exception of $72.95, which has been re-
tained in my hands to meet the payment made for Postage on letters
(Public) directed to me at Nashville, and also a small payment for sta-
tionary &", as you will see by referrence to receipts forwarded to M*
Maury by this days mail—These two accounts I think are just, and
are referred to you for your approbation "
I am Sir with great respect Yº Mo Obt & Humble Servant
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE: JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy. of State
[Endorsed] Andrew Jackson—
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
' TO ANDREW JACKSON
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
Executive Department East Florida
S* AUGUSTINE February 18* 1822
SIR-Your letter of the 19, ulto.” reached me on the 13* Ins"—
As the mail arives here only once a week and tomorrow will be its first
return, I have the honor to send you the enclosed papers, from Nº 1
to 1979–
I endeavoured to get the two letters of 30° " or 31* July and 4*
August,” mentioned by you, but Captain Bell left here on the 23**
** Post, p. 378, under date of Mar. 5.
* NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xix).
* See post, p. 367.
* Not found.
* Not present, but see Worthington to the Secretary of State, May 8, 1822 (post,
p. 418).
* Ante, p. 137.
* Ante, p. 156.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 365
Decº for Washington City, and never had turned over to me, either
the originals or copies—And I am ignorant of any evidence which he
had of the Spaniards “Culling and taking away the Archives”, as he
appears to have stated to you—Hadeed by their being eehtinued in
effiee by him; and ea their keaving here; writing him apprebatery
addresses &G; they must have been quite igherant ef his having Haade
steh eharges against theła—This tho' does not in my mind lessen
the probability of the fact stated by him and I regret he is not here
to furnish you with the evidence—It took place before my arrival—If
I had any proofs I would most cheerfully send them on—As it is I
forward you every thing which has transpired on the subject, since
I entered on my duties here—All these papers, with the exception of
N° 19.” I forwarded as the transactions arose, both to you at
Pensacola and to M' Adams N° 19.-Was in the press when the
President's Message came out—I then doubted the propriety of
publishing it—But sent a copy of it to the Honb" C. A. Rodney and
the Honb” Dr Jo" Kent at Washington, to let it be published or not
as it might be thought best—I presume they did not think it worth
while—I now send it to you as my honest opinion on the whole affair—
I assure you I am sorry, that my proceedings here should have
rendered it necessary for you to have any trouble about them—But
I cannot conceive, that a justification from the American Authorities
for taking possession of the Archives, can be called for, now, otherwise
than as a mere matter of form—
To hear of your ill health, gives me pain, for your well being is dear
not only to your personal friends but to the “Hearts of your
Country”—
If you think a Winter residence in East Florida, on the Atlantic—
so convenient to our great sea port Cities, would be agreeable to
you—I will, on being so commissioned by you, look out for and pur-
chase an eligible place, of the size you may require—I fear your
winter-mountain-air is too keen for any person subject to breast
complaints—
I have endeavoured, thus far to carry through your Floridian sys-
tem and have succeeded—In the reorganization of this Government,
I don't know what they will do with me, and as I am not informed,
that my conduct has been approved of, I wrote the Gov" that I laid
no claims on them, for the part I had acted here—If they thought it
best in a Territorial or national point of view to discontinue or not
advance me, or to send me elsewhere, to act, regardless of any personal
considerations towards me—to look at me in the Abstract—I hold
not one foot of land here and have no predilections—
* Dec. 14, 1821, signed “An American Civil Officer” but actually written by
Worthington in defense of his conduct towards Coppinger. See post, p. 418.



366 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
However should I be continued in Florida, I shall always feel it
an honor and a high satisfaction, to tender you any humble services
which you may at any time, think it in my power to offer—
With very great respect &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
Gen' ANDREW JACKSON
[Addressed] Gen' Andrew Jackson Nashville Tennessee
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF ST. AUGUSTINE
AND ST. JOHNS COUNTY
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS)
[February 20, 1822]
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States in Congress assembled
The Memorial of the undersigned citizens of S*Augustine and the
county of St Johns in Territory of Florida respectfully sheweth
That your Memorialists labor under great inconvenience from the
mail route from the North as at present established.—They humbly
represent that it is not only unnesessarily circuitous, but in conse-
quence of the mail being carried by water the greater part of the way
from Sº Mary's to S' Augustine, it is in boisterous weather and during
the prevalence of low tides, subject to detention and exposed to the
danger of being lost.—They beg leave to represent, that, if the route
were changed and the Mail carried by the way of Jefferson and
Coleraine near Camp Pinckney in the State of Georgia and by way
of the Cowford * in this Territory a distance of more than forty
miles would be saved, the arrival of the mail would be much expedited,
and a direct mail communication opened between this Territory and
the State of Georgia to the incalculable advantage of both.--The
route proposed by your Memorialists will pass on what is generally
known by the name of “Kings road” “which was laid out at a great
expence and is still in a Tolerable state of repair, and was always the
direct line of communication between Florida and Georgia, when
both were united under the Government of Great Britain.-Your
Memorialists humbly apprehend that a bare inspection of the Map
of Georgia will furnish sufficient arguments in support of the prayer
of your Memorialists.
* A cattle crossing on the St. John's River near its mouth, where in 1822 a
town was laid out which was named Jacksonville in honor of Andrew Jackson.
* Built originally during the British period between New Smyrna and St.
Augustine, this road was later extended to Cowford and thence to the St. Marys
River.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 367
Your Memorialists therefore pray that an Act may be passed
changing the Mail route as proposed—And your Memorialists as in
duty bound will ever pray &c
G. W. Perpall Jn” Drysdale
F. M. Arredondo Win M*Coskry
Esteban Arnau G. A. Gaither
John Geiger P. Andrews
Pedro Miranda Elias Wallen
James Hall Will Reynolds
Michael Crosby John R. Smith
Tho" Craig Moses Hart
Jn” Evans Wm Starkweather
J R Hanham Ede Van Evour
R D Fontane Rich" Murray
John Marshall Harvey Brown
Bernardo Segui Abrm Eustis
Franco Ferreira John [MS. torn]
G Darling Juan Huertas
Joseph Delespine Franco De Medicis
Franco Rovira Sam" Fairbank
Fran"9 P. Sanchez James Jaquare
J P C McMahon Andrew Storrs
J M Hanson John Wharten
Charles Vignoles Jose Ximenez
Tho. H. Penn Wm. Bartlett
John Rodman Cha" Robion
Edmund Law Joseph M. Sanchez
John Mills Lewis Huguon
[Endorsed] Florida Inhab" of Sº Augustine & County of Sº John's
Feb 20–1822 Refº to the Committee on the Post-office " &c. &c
allowed 1 *—
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO ANDREW JACKSON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX]
Department of State WASHINGTON 22 Feb" 1822
GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON Hermitage—Near Nashville.
SIR I have had the honour of receiving your Letters of the 22 *
and 31 Ultimo,” with their respective enclosures. A copy is herewith
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 281.
* The proposed new route was adopted by an act approved May 8, 1822, 3 STAT.
705. See post, p. 487.
87 Ante, p. 334.
* NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, X), printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III,
143–144, enclosing documents from Act. Gov. Walton, and expressing the hope
that Walton will be continued in office.



368 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
enclosed of the Letter written by direction of the President to M*
Walton the Secretary of the Territory of West Florida in relation to
the two Spanish Officers de Williers and Guillemard.”
You will have received ere this the Letter of M* Maury the account-
ing Clerk of this Department,” informing you of the adjustment of
your accounts leaving a balance in your hand of $5735.32, which
sum you were requested to have placed to the credit of the Treasury
of the United States at the Branch Bank of the United States at
New Orleans—Whatever communications relating to the public Serv-
ice you may hereafter receive from Colonel Walton or Mº Worthington
you will have the goodness to transmit to this Department. For any
additional charges for stationary and postage which may accrue there-
from you are authorized to draw upon this Department at your
convenience.
With this Letter will be forwarded to you a copy of the Presidents
Message to the House of Representatives and of the Documents
transmitted with it,” upon the Resolution offered by Mr Whitman.”
When the final answer from this Department to the complaints of the
Spanish Minister against certain of your measures in Floridas, shall
have been given I shall have the honour of communicating a copy of
it to you.
With Sentiments of the highest respect I am Sir, your very humble
and obedient Servant.
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters., XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 22 Feb" 1822
W* G. D. WORTHINGTON Secretary and acting Governor of East
Florida
SIR. I have had the honour of receiving your Letters of 11 Nov.”
4.94 11.95 29 Decr.9° and 8.” 15 Jany 98 with their enclosures.
The President of the United States having received and accepted
the Resignation of General Jackson as Governor of Floridas,” I am
89 Infra.
90 Jan. 25, 1822, NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XIX). Not printed.
91 Printed, A. S. P., Misc., II, 799 et seq.
92 Annals, 17 Cong., 1 sess., col. 534.
93 Ante, p. 272, under date of Nov. 12, 1821.
94 Not found.
** Ante, p. 301.
9° Not found.
97 Ante, p. 329.
98 Ante, p. 333.
** Ante, p. 275.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 369
instructed to inform you, of his direction that you should continue
to exercise, all the authorities vested in you, as acting Governor of
East Florida, until further provision for the Government of the
Territory shall be made by Congress, or until you shall receive further
Orders from the President."
I am with much Respect Sir, your very humble and Obedient
Servant.
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WALTON (WEST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 22 Feb” 1822
GEORGE WALTON Esquire Secretary and acting Governor of West
Florida
SIR. The President of the United States having received and
accepted the resignation of General Jackson as Governor of Florida,
I am instructed to inform you of his direction that you should con-
tinue to exercise all the authorities vested in you by General Jackson
during his absence from the Province, until further provision for the
Government of the same shall be made by Congress, or until you shall
receive further orders from the President.
I have received from General Jackson a Letter * enclosing an
extract of yours to him of the 7 of January last “relating to the case of
the two Spanish Officers, Marcos de Williers and Arnalda Guillemard,
under arrest at their houses for returning to Pensacola in disobedience
to the Proclamation of Gen' Jackson.
As it appears by their memorials that they returned for the settle-
ment of their private affairs, and the care of their Families, and that
they pledged themselves to pay due respect to the Laws and the con-
stituted authorities of the Territory, the President, directs me to
instruct you to discharge them from arrest, and permit them to remain
there.”
I have the honour to be with great respect Sir, your very humble
and ob" Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
1 Answered post, p. 381.
* Ante, p. 334.
* NA (Fla. Terr. Papers, x), printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., Iv, 800.
* Answered post, p. 403.
301867–57–25



370 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
St AUGUSTINE 26th Feby 1822
SIR I had the honor of transmitting my agency account to the
Department some time ago exhibiting a Ballance of $122 in my favor
which necessity obliges me to draw for—I have accordingly done so
this day order of John Caldwell Esq at sight & hope for it's protection
There have been some disbursments by me as Marshal on account of
the District Court held here which as well as the transmission of the
Laws of the U. S. are presented to the notice of the Department of
State
I am with the greatest respect. Sir Your Most Obedient and very
faithful Servant
J: G* FORBES
TO THE HONBLE J Q ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed) James G. Forbes 26 Feby 1822
LOUIS MCLANE 5 TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1822, Bk. 2:ALS)
WASHINGTON March 1. 1822
SIR, In answer to your favor of yesterday,” requesting me to afford
all the information in my possession, upon which the act for the preser-
vation of the Timber of the U. S. in Florida was passed, I have the
honor to state, that the Committee on Naval Affairs was induced to
recommend the passing of the said act in consequence of the following
information, which they received from the best authority—“That
on the 23rd. ultimo, when Judge Duval crossed the St. Johns River
there were at least three hundred hands employed in cutting down the
live oak & red cedar on the Publick lands; that the establishment
made by these workmen & their employers, was near a small town
called Pablo, on the St. Johns River, about four miles from the mouth,
and that they extended their depradations for thirty miles up the
river. The Committee were also informed that the course of trans-
portation of the Timber thus cut, was by an inland communication
from the St. Johns River to the St. Marys, and down the St Johns
and that a vessel despatched to the mouth of the St. Johns River,
would probably effect the object in view.
I have the honor to be Sir with great respect your obedient Servant
L. M'LANE.
THE HON. SMITH THOMPSON Secy. of the Navy—
* A Representative in Congress from Delaware.
* Feb. 28, 1822, NA (ND, SN Lets. to Cong., III).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 371
|Addressed] The Hon. Smith Thompson Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsed] March 1. 1822 Hon L. M*Lane Copy sent to Mr Crawford
5th March 1822 7 Timber
RECOMMENDATION OF JUDGE DUVAL AS GOVERNOR
[NA:SD, Applications:DS]
[March 3, 1822)
TO THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCEY ADAMS Secretary of State
A rumor having reached Sº Augustine that the attention of the
President of the United States has been directed to the Claims and
qualifications of William P Duval for the Chief Magistracy of this
Territory, the Citizens have determined to Second this Judicious
nomination by a respectful Communication of their own wishes which
exactly accord with those of Mº Duvals friends in Washington. The
selection of a Gentleman fitted for that high and responsible Station
not only by rank and 4-a!!ełłłs talents, but by manners and feelings
adapted to the Character of the people and the Situation of the
Territory is of the last importance to the happiness and prosperity of
this Country—No choice would be so gratifying or acceptable to the
people of East Florida as Judge Duval, And believing that the Presi-
dent will be ready at all times to lend a favorable ear to the reasonable
Solicitations of a people over whose interest and happiness Providence
has called him to exert an important influence, they respectfully but
earnestly request of the President the nomination of the said Judge to
that office, if the Presidents opinion of the merits of that individual
correspond with those of the people of East Florida–Saint Augustine
34 of March 1822
G. W. Perpall John M. Fontané
Fran” P. Sanchez W" Starkweather
José B. Reyes T. E. Van Lier
John Geiger Gamaliel Darling
F. M. Arredondo G A Gaither
Bernardo Segui William Travers
Joseph S. Sanchez Ynocencio Cardona
Daniel Hurlbert Jose Pomar
Mateo Solano F. de Jerimeno (?)
Jose Ximenez Esteban Arnau
Fran” Rovira Juan F. Gonzalez
Pablo Sabate Pedro Miranda
Pedro Trope Jas S Tingle
W. M. Gibson Tho" Craig
Fran” Ferreira Jose Andreu
7 Post, p. 372.



372 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Pedro Benet Felipe Solana
Wm M*Coskry Joseph M. Sanchez
Moses Hart B. Castro y Ferrer
[Endorsed] 3. March 1822. Sundry Citizens of Sº Augustine Rec-
ommend Judge Duval as Governor of Florida dept of State memorial
from Sº Augustine Judge Duvall 8–
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE SECRETARY OF
THE TREASURY
[NA:ND, SN Executive Let. Bk. 1]
NAVY DEPM* 5th March 1822
HONB” W* H. CRAWFORD Secretary of the Treasury
SIR. The Secretary at War will order a guard to be placed on board
the revenue cutter now at Savannah for the purpose of Carrying into
execution, “An Act for the preservation of the Timber of the United
States in Florida; * and I have to request that the Cutter may touch at
Fernandiné, to take on board the guard. I would beg leave to state
that from the information received respecting the depredations daily
committed upon the timber in Florida, it is desirable that you give the
necessary instructions to the commandant of the Cutter as early as
may suit your convenience. I send to you herewith a copy of a letter
from the Chairman of the Naval Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives," shewing the places requiring immediate attention.
Very respectfully &" SMITH THOMPSON
* Other recommendations to the President for DuVal's appointment as Gov-
ernor to be found in NA(SD, Applications) include the following: John Speed
Smith, Samuel H. Woodson, Benjamin Hardin, James D. Breckinridge, Thomas
Montgomery, John T. Johnson, David Trimble, Thomas Metcalfe, and Francis
Johnson, all Representatives in Congress from Kentucky, Senators Richard M.
Johnson and Isham Talbot, from that State, Rep. Joseph Kent (Md.), Rep. John
Scott (Mo.), and Rep. George Holcombe (N.J.), no date, received Jan. 18, 1822;
Sen. Jesse B. Thomas (Ill.), Feb. 1, 1822, Sen. James Pleasants (Va.), Feb. 8, 1822;
Rep. Thomas Montgomery (Ky.), Feb. 16, 1821; James S. Tingle, of St. Augustine,
to Rep. Edward B. Jackson (Va.), Mar. 4, 1822; Rep. Francis Johnson (Ky.),
Apr. 5, 1822; Senators Ninian Edwards (Ill.), Benjamin Ruggles (Ohio), Waller
Taylor (Ind.), and Caesar Augustus Rodney (Del.), no date; Reps. Raphael Neale
(Md.), Daniel P. Cook (Ill.), Thomas J. Rogers (Pa.), Samuel C. Allen (Mass.),
Anthony New (Ky.), Sen. James Noble (Ind.), Sen. James Pleasants (Va.), and
Del. James W. Bates (Ark. Terr.), no date.
* Approved Feb. 23, 1822, 3 STAT. 651. Cf. act approved Mar. 1, 1817, 3 STAT.
347–348.
10 Ante, p. 370.



F L OR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 373
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:LS 11]
NAVY DEPARTMENT March 5th 1822.
SIR, I return to you enclosed the letter of Col. Eustis; ” and I have
the honour to inform you, that the President wishes you to give orders
to the Commanding Officers in Florida, and its vicinity, to take
immediate and effectual measures to prevent the shipment and ex-
portation of the Timber mentioned; and to put a stop to further
proceedings of any persons who shall attempt cutting timber on the
public lands of that Country.”
I have the honour to be, With great respect, Sir Your Ob: Servant,
SMITH THOMPSON
HoN’BLE JOHN C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:LS 14]
NAVY DEPARTMENT March 5th 1822.
SIR, With a view to carry into effect the Act of Congress, approved
the 23" day of February last,” for the preservation of the Timber in
Florida, the Secretary of the Treasury will order one of the Revenue
Cutters to be stationed in the River St. Johns, to prevent the depar-
ture of Wessels loaded with Timber; and the President requests you to
direct a competent Guard from either of the Stations in that neighbour
hood, to be placed on board the Cutter, and to be embarked at such
place as you shall be pleased to designate for the purpose.
I have the honour to be, With great respect, Sir, Your Ob. Servant,
SMITH THOMPSON
HON’BLE JOHN C. CALHOUN Secretary of War.
il Filed with letter from Abraham Eustis to the Secretary of War, Feb. 12, 1822
(ante, p. 363).
in Ante, p. 363.
is For an opinion of the Attorney General, May 27, 1821, to the effect that
intruders on the public lands could be removed by military force, see Official
Opins. Attys. Geml. U. S. (Washington, 1852—), 1,471–473; printed also in H. Exec.
Doc. 123, 26 Cong., 2 sess., pp. 351–352, and in H. Exec. Doc. 55, 31 Cong., 2
sess., pp. 306–308. Copies of this opinion were sent out with circular instruc-
tions from the Commissioner of the General Land Office to registers and receivers
of land offices and district attorneys, July 13 and July 23, 1821, respectively, but
at that time none of those officials were active in Florida (NA, GLO, Live Oak
Corresp.; Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 11). The instruction of July 13, 1821, is printed
post, vol. XXIII, as a note to Graham's instructions to Edgar Macon, Mar. 24, 1825.
14 Filed with letter from Abraham Eustis to the Secretary of War, Feb. 12, 1822
(ante, p. 363).
1* 3 STAT. 651.



374 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
NAVY
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
Adjt. Gen' office WASHINGTON 6 March 1822.
THE HONBº S. THOMPSON Secry of the Navy
SIR, I am instructed by the Secretary of War to inform you, that a
detail of Ten men has been ordered from the Garrison at Amelia
Island; to be placed on board of the Revenue Cutter to be stationed
in the St. John's river, with a view to carry into effect the act of
Congress approved the 23 day of February last for the preservation
of Timber in Florida.
Further instructions have been given to the Comm” officers in
Florida to adopt prompt & efficient measures to prevent as far as
practicable all depredations on the Public Timber in that district of
country.
It is expected that the Cutter will report at Amelia Island for the
guard detailed.”—
I have the honour to be &"
(sig") JAMES GADSDEN Adj Gen.'
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
Executive Department East Florida
ST AUGUSTINE March 6th 1822
SIR-I enclose you, the Copy of a letter which I wrote Mr Marshall
Forbes on the 1* Inst. & his reply of the 5*—The subject is an
important & interesting one and if the Government think proper to
give any special instructions on it or will authorise me to employ one
or more persons to be at some expence & trouble to persuade the
Province on this subject, in particular; I will do so—
A copy of my letter of the 5th to the Marshall is also forwarded on
the subject of the English wreckers—He has not yet replied to it—
There are a great many local matters which occupy my time here,
on which I deem it superfluous to write your Department—The Prov-
ince is as yet such a Blank—and what information we get, so crude &
dubious, that I presume for all purposes of legislation, as it regards
Florida, the General Government have ample information, to draw
conclusions sufficiently correct & to frame systems proper & efficient—
I heard from a private source, that the Department of State, had
not received a full account of the proceedings respecting the Archives
which were taken possession of at this place—
* On the same date an instruction in the sense of this letter was sent to Gen.
Winfield Scott (NA, WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6). See post, p. 377.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 375
I gave both to the Secretary of State & Gen' Jackson a full & minute
account of all our proceedings here on the subject, as it commenced,
progressed & ended—So that I fear my Despatches for Washington,
must in some link of it, if I have been correctly informed, been lost on
the way—Should it be so, I can at any time supply the deficiency—
Yours with distinguished consideration
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of the Province of East Florida
THE HONBLE J. QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State
[Addressed] The Honble J. Quincy Adams Secº of State Washington
City—[Postmarked] St. Augustine, 12 March Free
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—Recd 30th March
[Enclosures]
Acting Governor Worthington to James G. Forbes
Executive Department East Florida
ST. AUGUSTINE March 1st 1822
SIR-For some time past I have been informed that persons were
committing Depredations on the Lands of the United States in this
Province, particularly in cutting down and conveying off Timber—I
have not been able to obtain any information, sufficiently precise to
specify the Parties and arrest them—It, is mainly an important
object to watch over and protect the property of the United States
in this Province in respect to their Live Oak, Cedar, and Pine so
necessary in ship building, and of which such peculiarly fine growths,
characterize the Floridas
I have been informed that a Brig, from New York, has been for
some weeks up the Sº Johns, near Judge Fatio's, loading with Timber,
ultimately destined for England—Has she complied with the Revenue
Laws?—It is said no timber has as yet been carried out of this Province
and will not be for a month or more—However—you will without
further delay, for more minute information, either go yourself or send
an honest and intelligent Deputy on the Sº John's, to look into and
ascertain the facts in the premises—And also keep a strict look-out,
as far as is practicable, on this subject, from Cape Sable to our
Northern Boundaries so that the property and interest of the United
States receive no detriment, particularly as it regards their Timber—
And in every instance, where either you or your deputies, can find out
either persons or Vessels engaged in these unlawful Trespasses (to call
them by no [MS. torn] seize [MS. torn] attach every person & those
concerned with them, and secure them, 'till they may properly be
decided on—And as we have at present no Court of the United States
in this province, I will as the necessity and right of the case shall



376 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
require, either act myself or refer the whole proceedings to Washing-
ton—I have no doubt that there already exists both Law and Power
in the Officers of the United States now in Commission here, to reach
and punish any wrongs and violations offered to the United States in
this particular—At all events I will take on myself all fair and honest
responsibility on the subject—
You will of course keep a correct account of your extraordinary
expenses in this business and I will approve of your vouchers if
properly made out and presented—
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of the Province of East Florida
To JAMES G FORBEs Esq." Marshall of the U. States for East &
West Florida
[Endorsed] with Mº Worthingtons Letter of 6 March 1822.
James G. Forbes to Acting Governor Worthington
S* AUGUSTINE 5th March 1822
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
1* instant & to state that I have made all possible enquiry in relation
to the cutting of Wood upon the public Lands in this Province & find
that a M. Smith of New York said to have a Contract with the British
Government has a Brig loading with Cedar on the S* John's either for
that City or England but that the Cedar is so scarce that he progresses
very slowly in obtaining it from any Lands whatever—
The Contractors for the Navy of the U.S. cut also on S*Johns & on
the Musquito wherever they find it most convenient & pay the Parties
claiming—
It no doubt becomes important to ascertain whether any encroach-
ments are made upon the public Lands & I shall most cheerfully enter
upon the duties you assign me to that effect by continuing my re-
searches & arresting the progress of those people in all cases where I
can discover any depredations upon Government property—
Upon consulting the Collector I find that he is taking the necessary
measures for protecting the Revenue Laws—
I shall proceed to the Sº John's & ascertain as far as possible the
exact state of things & report—
I am very respectfully, Sir, Your most Obd" & very humble Sert
J. G. FORBES
TO HIS EXCELLENCY W. G. D WORTHINGTON Governor of East
Florida
[Addressed] To His Excellency W. G. D. Worthington Governor of
East Florida
[Endorsed] St Augustine 5. March 1822. Mr Marshall Forbes.
Nº. 2. with Mr Worthington's Letter of 6 March 1822.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 377
Acting Governor Worthington to James G. Forbes
Executive Department East Florida
St AUGUSTINE March 5th 1822
SIR. Shortly after my arrival here I wrote the Secretary of State 17
that I should take up the subject of the English Wreckers lining the
Southernmost coast of Florida—for their own gain and profit; thereby
reaping advantages which, now, I think, should exclusively belong to
our own citizens—At all events Congress might think proper to enact
Laws giving our Wreckers preference—And not impair or narrow the
chances of relief to those whose persons or property may at any time
be shipwreck'd on our shores—but put it upon a better, safer and more
liberal footing—You will therefore, be pleased to view this communi-
cation, as calling for your special vigilance and attention in the same
manner as the subjects embraced in my letter to you of the 1* Ins"—
And if you can furnish me with any information or suggestions on this
subject at present or hereafter, which may be for the benefit of our
citizens or which may be worth communicating to Congress, you will
be pleased to do it without delay
Yours very respectfully &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary and Acting Governor of the Province of East Florida
To JAMES G FORBES Esqr. Marshall of the U. States for the Floridas
[Endorsed] Nº 3. with Mr Worthington's Letter of 6 March 1822.
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO JOHN H. ELTON
[NA: ND, SN Lets. to Officers Ships of War, Bk. 14]
NAVY DEPARTMENT March 9th 1822
CAPT: JOHN. H. ELTON U. S. Brig Spark Charleston S. C.
SIR, When the U. S. Brig Spark under your command shall be
ready for sea you will proceed directly to the River St: Johns, East
Florida, enter that River and take a position to command the ingress
& egress, and allow no Wessel to pass without a strict examination.—
The enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress* will point out to you the
object in view, and the copy of a letter from Col" Eustis to the Secre-
tary of War, will aid your enquiries into the facts therein stated.—
You will be joined by M James Hutton as an inspector of timber who
will take a General Survey of the Country round to examine the
growth of timber & its actual state, as well as to see what has been cut
17 Ante, p. 192.
18 Feb. 23, 1822, 3 STAT. 651.



378 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
and now remains to be transported to the U. S. Navy Yards.”—
Captain Cassin” will place Gun Boat Nº 168 under your orders to
accompany you to the River St Johns, and upon your arrival there
you will take all necessary measures to prevent the cutting of timber
or of transporting it, & when the presence of your Wessel shall be no
longer necessary to check the depredations said to be committing
there upon the public lands, you will give the same orders to be
executed by the Commander of Gun Boat Nº. 168, and leave him in
charge of that service with instructions to report frequently to the
Department through Captain Cassin at Charleston.—
You will, after performing this duty, proceed on your cruise accord-
ing to former orders.”—
I am respectfully &" S. T.
CHARLES J. NOURSE TO ABRAHAM EUSTIS
[NA:WD, East. Dept., Lets. Sent, Bk. 2)
Adjutant Gen" Office Eastern Dept
GOVE ISLAND N York 11 March 1822
SIR I am directed by Major Gen" Scott to advise you that Congress
have passed an Act which was approved by the President on the 23"
ult” for the preservation of timber in Florida, & that under this Act a
revenue Cutter will be stationed by the Treasury Department in the
river Sº John's to prevent the departure of vessels loaded with
timber.—
The Cutter will report at Amelia Island and the commanding officer
at that place, has been directed” to detail a guard of ten men including
non commissioned officers to be placed under the orders of the officer
commanding the cutter.
The Commanding General directs that you prevent by legal means
& to the extent of your ability all depredations which may be at-
tempted on the timber on the public lands in Florida.-
A copy of your report* to the War Department of a party of ax-
men being employed under a certain Aaron Smith, in “cutting cedar
on the U. S. land bordering on the river Sº Johns near Buena Westa”
has been forwarded to the comd General, who directs that in all
such cases where the facts appear clear, you take prompt and effectual
means to prevent the shipment and exportation of the timber—
19 Instructions to Hutton to this effect, dated Mar. 13, 1822, are in NA(ND,
Bd. Navy Commrs., Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 3). Reports from him based upon his
survey and enquiries, dated May 16 and Aug. 28, 1822, are in NA(ND, SN
Misc. Lets. Recd., Bks. 4 and 5).
20 John Cassin.
21 See post, p. 384.
22 Addressed to Capt. Matthew M. Payne on the same date is a communication
of like import.
* Ante, p. 363.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 379
In carrying into effect the act of 23* Feby you will proceed with
great caution, acting only on the most positive evidence as to the
depredation on public timber which may be attempted, & in no case
which may possibly involve you in law suits for illegal seizures or
prohibitions”
From the state of land titles in Florida you must necessarily pro-
ceed with great prudence in all your efforts to suppress the depreda-
tions which it is the object of the government to prevent, or you may
interfere where you have no authority
I have only to add that you are required to report to Department
head quarters from time to time the measures pursued relative to this
matter as well as every thing which may be interesting & in any way
connected therewith
With great respect I have the honor to be Yr Obed Sr
CHS. J NOURSE ag a a g
To LIEUT COL EUSTIs Comdº St Augustine E. F.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA: SD, Misc. Letters.: ALS)
Executive Department East Florida
STAUGUSTINE March 12 1822–
SIR I enclose you two exhibits A* & B. which will go to ascertain
the state of my aſc with the Gen' Gov'—As they are, they must stand
or fall—To be sure, the result is of little consequence to any one but
myself—To me it is of more consequence, than, perhaps it would be
flattering to acknowledge—It will at all events furnish data, for the
Government to employ persons in this Capacity in future so as not to
over or under pay them *—
With very distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of the Province of East Florida
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State Washington
[Addressed] The Honble J. Quincy Adams Secº of State Washing-
ton City
[Endorsed] Recd 30th.
24 See post, p. 384.
25 Not present.
* See post, p. 513.



380 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PER S
[Enclosure]
Expense Account of Acting Governor Worthington
B.
The United States
To W. G. D. Worthington Secretary & Acting Governor of the
Province of East Florida—D"
To extraordinary expences from the 18. May 1821.
(the day of my appointment) in reaching St. Augustine
to organize the temporary Government thereof, & also
incurred there, previous to my taking possession of the
Government House on the 1st of December— $1,020.71.
To Monies paid for Repairs of the Government House—
per Special account & vouchers, herewith—marked A $ 267.26
To One Year's Salary—from the 18. of May 1821. to
the 18. May 1822—to 1 June 1822 $1 557.53
2 845.50
Cr
By Cash recd. at Baltimore in July 1821— $ 500.00
By Bill on Secy of State of 25 Decr.1821. 600.00
By do do do 400
$1 500.00
Balance due W. G D Worthington up to the 18 May
1822– 1 345.50
$2 845.50
Note—My actual expences estimated up to the 18 of may 1822,
from the time I was appointed Secretary &c for East Florida, I find
will have been $3,040.30. So that I charge to extraordinary expences
$1,020.71. & to repairs $267.26. and the balance of my expences
$1,752.33—I charge in my individual or salary account; whatever
that may be, on the ground, that my expences, from the nature of
them, would have been nearly that, had I have remained in my
private character—I think my charges are low—Considering the in-
convenient season of the year, when I went to St Augustine—The
Country, strange & undergoing changes—everything enormously
high & the deadly plague which surrounded myself & family, putting
me in every respect to unusual Costs—The $1,020.71 was made up
by a great number of items, which I abducted from my expences as
peculiarly chargeble against the U. States—& not applicable to me
individually. But for which, I neither took nor retained receipts.
And at this time have not the amount even of the items which com-
pose it—So that it rests alone, for support, on it's reasonableness &



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 381
the gaurantee of my private & public reputation for honesty & sound
judgment, that it is a just charge–
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of The Province of East Florida
[Endorsed] 18 May 1821 with Mº Worthingtons letter of 12 March
1822
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, X:LS)
Executive Department East Florida
STAUGUSTINE March 18th 1822
SIR-I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 22" Ulto.
by last mail "-For this additional mark of, approbation of my
humble services here, by the President, in continuing me as the Gov-
ernor of this Province, since the resignation of Gen' Jackson, I return
my grateful acknowledgments—I view it as another strong proof of
the inflexible integrity of our Government, which being convinced of
the honest intentions of it's public functionaries, however distant or
subaltern they may be, will not suffer them to be injured either by
Foreign or Domestic Clamor whether proceeding from a Palace or
a Cottage—Whenever it shall be the intention of the Government, to
send a successor to me here, I will with the greatest comity, transfer
to him every thing which can possibly be expected from me and in
the best state and condition in my power—"Till then, I will, as here-
tofore, endeavour to discharge whatever Duties may be devolved
upon me—
I have been anxiously seeking to obtain all the information on this
Province which I thought would be useful But it is even yet so
submerged in water, that I did not like to risk travelling through it—
I should have to sleep out and be exposed to the worst of weather—
Besides I have no orders to that effect, and therefore might not be
reimbursed the expences which I should incur—If however this Gov-
ernment will authorise it I will, if [MS. torn] the Hot weather sets
in, make a tour either around, through or into the Floridas, with a
small select party—I wished to ascertain a fit place for a future
Metropolis And suspect, either about the Head of Tampa Bay or
a few miles north of the Alachua Savanna, will be the best scite—
However this can be better ascertained hereafter—
The Alachua is one of the best bodies of good land—I suppose not
less than half a million of acres—and near Tampa is good land also-
It is said that M* Chazotte has discovered near Cape Florida about
27 Amte, p. 368.



382 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
4,000,000 acres of good land—I suspect that his account is exagger-
ated—I don’t say intentionally—But it is so—
I wrote you shortly after my arrival here that I would take up the
subject of the English wreckers lining our Southern Coast—These
are the facts—
From Cape Florida to the Dry Tortugas they frequent and en-
cumber this Coast—There are, at this time from 37 to 40—from 16
to 18 Tons, employed—Their general rendezvous is at Key Taverno
near Key Largo—There are also 8 or 9 fishing smacks, Americans
under Spanish licence from 38 to 40 Tons employed off Cape Sable—
They take a fish called the Grouper of from 3 to 18 lbs—worth at
the Havanna from a Dollar to a Dollar and a half a piece—in seven
or eight days each smack makes a trip and sells her Fish at from
Three to four Hundred Dollars—This trade continues all the year—
Also the business of taking quantities of the finest Turtles is carried
on by the English from New Providence & I think the Wrecking,
the Turtleing, and Fishing should be put on a footing to ensure a
monopoly or first preference to our own citizens—
Altho' it would perhaps be most proper to write (M.S. torn] it will
be brought forward, by being known to you—I would observe, that
there is an island, about Seven miles long and two broad to the
south-west of Cape Sable; which would furnish a fine Military Post
as a Point D'apui to our whole Military Atlantic Line—good water
and a good Harbour—and it has upwards of One hundred acres of
low land where salt is deposited in abundance—So that from the
duties derived from Wrecking & Salt &c.—some hundreds of thousands
of Dollars would flow into the Treasury from Cape Florida to the
Dry Tortugas—
There is one thing as it regards Florida I wish the Government to
keep always in mind—That whenever they have seen Americans
slyly or furiously advocating Spanish Grants and Spanish Claims
and vindicating Spanish Officers at the expense of their own fellow
Citizens—To beware of them—I don't say “Hic Niger est, hunc tu
Romano Caveto.” But beware of them.
This Island is called by the Spaniards Cayo Hueso—The English
is, Bone Key—The Americans call it Key West—or pronounce it,
so—I shrewdly suspect it belongs to the United States—It is claim’d,
to have been bought by a Mr Strong * a lawyer here, and a few days
ago I learnt he has sold it to Gen' Geddes * or Governor Geddes as
28 John B. Strong.
* John Geddes, Governor of South Carolina, 1818–1820. His representatives,
George W. Geddes and B. R. Montgomery, arrived at Key West early in April,
1822. See their letters to Lt. George W. Hamersley, Apr. 4, and Apr. 5, 1822,
in NA (ND, Letter Bk., M. C. Perry, 1821–1823, pp. 217, 203). The conflicting
claims of Simonton and Geddes to Key West produced a lawsuit, which termi-
nated in favor of the former (Browne, Key West, pp. 7-8).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 383
he is called, of South Carolina—He is the same Gentleman whose
certificate &c is seen in the affair we had here with Co'Coppinger
the ex-Spanish Governor, on the taking possession of the Archives
&c.—He lived while here with Co'Coppinger—I know nothing about
him, the Secº at War of course and the South Carolinians know him,
except, he appeared to be a gentlemanly personage in my slight
intercourse with him—It is a fine Military and Revenue Position
I repeat again; and if it belongs to the United States, they ought to
have it, as they ought to have all the lands here which fairly belong
to them—Which depends much on the Land commissioners—They
[MS. torn] of the first integrity, talents and inflexibility and fearless
of all [MS. torn]—After having submitted the [MS. torn] Mr. Marshall
Forbes of the 16* Inst. to M Rodman the collector of the Customs—
I have only to lay it before you—It is an important subject and if
strong grounds are not taken, it will be attempted to be carried on
boldly and extensively—My Order of the 1* Ins" to Marshall Forbes”
which I inclosed to you on the 6** I thought bold enough—But he
no doubt judiciously declined seizing the persons and things as I
thereby directed—The Collector also, tells me that he had given
orders to his deputy a M. Jenkins whom he sent to the S" Johns to
take the clearance there—I told him to send on and counteract the
order and make him come here with the Brig–I don't know if he
will be in time—Perhaps the Secretary of the Treasury has given
orders on this subject—M Rodman will do his duty—
I have taken some important movements with our Judiciary here—
I will be able to write you on that subject by next mail—If we differ
in opinions we sincerely compromise *—
With high consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON.—
Secretary and Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HON” JOHN Q. ADAMS Secy of State Washington City
P. S. If I thought the good opinion of the Gen' Gov' towards me,
required that I should get memorials in my favor, even for Governor
of the Floridas, I could get them, of the Best portion of the Com-
munity here—From men who have inherited or sworn to support
the Constitution of the U States: But I charged my friends, not to
get any such signatures in my favor—to get none—much less of men
who have cast off heretofore, their allegiance to the U States, or of
those who [MS. torn]
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington–Recd 15 April
30 Ante, p. 375.
31 Ante, p. 374.
* See post, p. 420.



384 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Enclosure: ALS)
James G. Forbes to Acting Governor Worthington (East Florida)
St AUGUSTINE 16th March 1822–
SIR. In pursuance of the directions you gave me for the protec-
tion of the timber of the U. S.* I proceeded to St John's River on
the 9” ins" but the boisterous weather prevented me from crossing
before Tuesday last when I ascertained that an Hermaphrodite Brig
was loading with Cedar at 9 mile Point near Cedar Creek by a M*
Smith of New York said to be for London that she will in about ten
days be ready for Sea after taking in the proceeds of 63 Trees near
Black Creek bought from a Mº Cowan * lately dead which were cut
from the best accounts on Lands of the U.S.
The master can be required to come here for clearance when such
measures can be taken as will best protect the public interest & as
will naturally suggest themselves to you—
In order to obtain correct information upon this subject it became
necessary to ascend a very fine River west of Sº John's called Black
Creek about ten miles but which is navigable for vessels of any
burthen entering the latter for 15 miles—I saw a Mº Brannen employed
by M* Smith to draw the cedar to the landing which renders the
evidence very clear—
I shall continue my researches to discover any intruders upon
public Lands & report “–
I am with great respect, Sir, Your most Obedient and Very humble
Servant
J. G. FORBES Marshal for the Floridas
TO HIS EXCELLENCY W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Governor of East
Florida
[Endorsed) J. G. Forbes—
THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6 º')
Adjº Gen' office WASHINGTON 22° March 1822.
TO THE HOB" J. C. CALHOUN Secry of War
SIR, In reply to your communication of the 21* instant * trans-
mitting a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 5* * I
* Ante, p. 375. See also ante, p. 376.
* Robert Cowan.
* See post, p. 407.
* Printed also in H. Doc. 108, 17 Cong., 1 sess.; Annals, 17 Cong., 1 sess.,
col. 1490; Niles' Reg., XXII, 122; Pensacola Floridian, May 18, 1822.
37 Not found.
** House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 311–312.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 385
have to report that from the returns in the Adj" Generals office it
appears that the Troops now in Florida, Those at Pensacola & St
Marks were under the command of Colonel J. R. Fenwick; * and
those at St Augustine and Amelia Island under the command of Lt
Colo: Eustis.
It does not appear from any returns or reports in this office that
the Secretarys of Florida have exercised any command over the
Troops within that Territory.—
I have the honour to be &"
(sig") JAMES GADSDEN Adj: Gen.'
MATTHEW C. PERRY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
NAVY
[NA: ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1822, Bk. 2: LS 4°]
Duplicate: U. S. Schooner Shark “ Port Rodgers Thompsons Island
Triplicate taken out March 28th 1822.
SIR In obedience to your order of the 7” of Februy,” I proceeded
to this Island for the purpose of carrying into execution your in-
structions, and in consequence of boisterous weather on our outward
passage by which we lost two of our Spars, I was compell'd to Stop
a few Hours at Havanna for the object of replaceing them, this course
was however by no means out of our route, and it fortunately af-
forded me an opportunity of takeing under convoy five American
vessels, a list of which is herewith enclosed.—
In reguard to the Island in question I have the honour to report,
that after carefully examining its whole extent, Sounding the Har-
bour, and otherwise makeing such observations as your instructions
directed, I have come to the conclusion that it possesses many ad-
vantages, as a Naval Rendezvous, and in consequence, have in the
name of the U. States taken formal possession of it, giveing it the
name of Thompsons Island” “ and have left Mids" Joseph Morehead
and one man to retain possession until further assistance can be fur-
nished them—at present their situation is tolerably comfortable. In
selecting this name, I have not only gratified my own wishes, but
* In an opinion of Mar. 27, 1822, the Attorney General held that under the
General Regulations of 1821 Col. Fenwick was properly in command at Pensacola
(NA, JD, Attorneys General Opinions, Bk. B; printed, Opins. Attys. Gen., I, 604).
* Copy in NA (ND, Let. Bk. of M. C. Perry, pp. 44–47), and in NA (HF, 19
Cong., 1 sess.); printed, S. Doc. 359, 24 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 4–7, H. Rept. 792,
29 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 11–13, H. Rept. 189, 30 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 15–18, and
A. S. P., Naval Affairs, IV, 963–964.
* The log book for this vessel in NA (ND, Bureau of Naval Personnel) for
most of this year is missing; the first available log begins on Nov. 8, 1822.
* Ante, p. 362.
* Named for the Secretary of the Navy, Smith Thompson.
301867–57—26



386 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
have complied with the request of the proprietors of the Soil present
on the Occasion of planting the Standard—and whose names are
John Warner Esq." U. S. Commercial Agent at Havanna, and Mess”
Fleming * & Whitehead “all American Citizens.—
The western end of the Island is the only part that can be ap-
proached by anything larger than a Boat At this extreme the Har-
bour is formed by a part of Thompsons Island and several mangrove
& sand Keys many of which are covered at High water—
The Harbour to which I have given the name of Port Rodgers” “
is capacious and sheltered from the prevailing Northerly and Easterly
Winds, it is however open from the South to West which is a matter
of but little importance as the winds in this part of the world but
Seldom blow from the Southwestern quarter, The Depth of water in
the Harbour is from 3 to 5% Fathm" but Wessels may find Safe an-
chorage without going into less than 4 fathoms—The Tides are rapid
and thier rise and fall about 6 Feet, wood and water is abundant, the
latter not of the best quality Fish and Game are to be taken in the
greatest profusion, and in the course of a Year or two the Proprietors
of the Island, will be able to Supply Ships with Fruit and Vegetables.—
The watering place is two miles from the anchorage ground, situated
on the South Side of the Island, The well about 100 Yards from the
Beach, the Landing is at present inconvenient but will become less
so, Should the Island be resorted to by our Cruisers, as the Officers
will naturally for their own accommodation, add to the facilities of
Shipping the Water—
I have already enlarged the Wells, and enclosed one with a Fence,
clear'd a large Garden Spot, planted Stakes on a Mud Bank, that
partly obstructs the channel into the Harbour and otherwise em-
ployed the period of my stay at the Island in makeing such improve-
ments as will benefit those who may hereafter visit the port—
It may well be supposed that on a coast so peculiarly dangerous
as the Florida Keys. the difficulties of Navigation must be very
numerous—requireing on the part of the Navigator the utmost caution
to avoid the innumerable Shoals, Rocks, and Sand Banks that sur-
round him in every direction, and altho' these dangers, are laid
down with admirable accuracy by the English Surveyors, yet the
Tides and currents are so rapid and irregular, that untill proper and
* John W. C. Fleming, a merchant of Mobile, Ala.
* Probably John Whitehead, as the agent of William Whitehead (H.R.S., Fla.,
Spanish Land Grants, v, 86–87). All of these men (Warner, Fleming, and White-
head) had acquired an interest in the ownership of Key West from John W.
Simonton. Warner, together with John Mountain, owned a quarter interest,
which they disposed of to Pardon C. Greene, who became a prominent resident
on the island.
* For Commodore John Rodgers, President of the Board of Navy Commis-
Sloners.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 387
Skillful Pilots are establish'd, it would be imprudent for our large
Vessels to cross the Reef-In time of War however these very dangers
will prove of Service to our Cruisers as a Knowledge of the Naviga-
tion will enable them to pass and Re-pass the Reef without danger,
and the want of Such Knowledge will prevent the Enemy from
reaping the same benefit
In regard to the advantages of Thompsons Island, as a place of
Trade I feel at a loss in forming an opinion its location is most cer-
tainly in its Favour, being Situated about midway between florida,
and Cuba, The Southern States and Louisianna which circumstance
has induced many to believe that in the course of time, The Island
must become a place of considerable commerce—Heretofore the
Florida Keys have been the resort of smuglers New providence
wreckers, and in fact of a Set of desperadoes who have paid but
little regard to either Law or Honesty, the present establishment
tho' on a Small Scale will I conjecture, (with the assistance of the
Settlers) be enabled to keep these lawless people from this Island—
but I would suggest the necessity of an early augmentation—of
force—if it be only for the purpose of enforceing the Revenue Laws —
A Gun Boat would be a force sufficient to answer all the purposes
required.—
In enumerating the advantages possessed by this Island and its
contiguous waters, and in reccommending it as a situation well cal-
culated for a Naval Rendezvous, I have looked to a period when
our country shall be engaged in a war with Some great Maritime
State—and when the undisputed possession of the Florida Keys will
be a matter of great importance, as it will insure the undisturbed
Navigation of the North West side of the Florida Stream (or Gulf
of Florida) to our Merchant Wessels, and will prove a check, on the
vast resources of the Island of Cuba—vast indeed, if possessed by
the enterpriseing Government of Great Britain.—
I may be excused in takeing this opportunity of Suggesting through
you Sir, to the Hon" Scy of the Treasury the great want of Light-
Houses on the Florida Keys—The happy transfer of so fair a portion
of Territory to the U. States has led to the belief that under the
enlightened and liberal policy of our Government, the Navigation of
the Shores of Florida will be rehd rendered more safe and convenient,
Numberless are the Wessels, and lives, that have been lost on this
treacherous Coast, so common are Ship wrecks # in this neighbour-
hood, that many Vessels are employed Solely for the purpose of
rescueing property from destruction, of which they receive a very
large Share as Salvage *—
* This subject was referred to the Secretary of the Treasury by a letter from
the Secretary of the Navy, Apr. 22, 1822 (NA, ND, SN Exec. Let. Bk. 1).



388 T E R R IT OR 1 A L P A P E R S
That rapid current denominated the Gulf Stream Sweeps the
Florida Reef, with incredible velocity, changing its course at every
variation of the wind thereby baffling the Skill of the most experi-
enced Navigator, and as they are deprived of the common Beacons,
so necessary in the Navigation of an intricate coast so are they at all
times exposed to the most eminint danger— —
The great number of vessels that daily pass through the Gulf of
Florida, to & from the Ports of New Orleans, Pensacola Mobile, the
Ports of Cuba, Jamaica and the Spanish Maine renders the erection
of Light Houses, not only as an act of justice on the part of our Gov-
ernment, But humanity and a regard to the Safety of the lives and
fortunes of our citizens Seriously demand so desierable a measure—
I should feel diffident in thus intruding my opinions upon you Sir
were I not fully impress'd with the belief that the Subject requires
the prompt and serious consideration of Government.—
At present Wessels bound into the Gulf of Mexico & Mexican Sea,
are compell'd to make the Island of Cuba for the purpose of Shapeing
a correct course to clear the dry Tortugas—(The Southern extreme
of the Florida Reef) by approaching Cuba they expose themselves
to the depredations of the numerous Picaroons, that infest the neigh-
bourhood of that Island—But if Light Houses were erected on the
Florida Keys—Wessels in passing and Re-passing through the Gulf
might Keep on Soundings, the whole distance and indeed might find
safe Navigation inside the Reef-
As to the number and location of the Light Houses I should pre-
sume there ought to be four, one on each extreme of the Florida
Reef, the other two at intermediate spaces—Say one on Cape Florida,
another on Key Largo and the third on Sand Key (if Sufficiently
Stable) and the fourth on the South west Tortugas—A Light House
is also very much wanted on cape Canaveral—
I have the Honour To be Respectfully Yr O* Serº
M, C, PERRY
THE HON* SMITH THOMPSON Secy of the Navy
[Endorsed] U.S. Sch: Shark Port Rodgers Thompsons Island March
26. 1822 Lt: Comdt: M. C. Perry Respecting his Survey of Thomp-
sons Island. &" The Triplicate—was taken out of this Book—Aug"
30th 1834–
MATTHEW C. PERRY TO JOSEPH MOORHEAD
[NA:ND, Letter Book, M. C. Perry, 1821–1823]
U. S. Schooner Shark. Port Rodgers THOMPSONS ISLAND
March 28th. 1822.
SIR. Having been conditionally ordered by the Honb" Sect” of
the Navy to take possession of this Island in behalf of the U. States



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 889
with instructions to leave an officer, and one man on it, for the purpose
of retaining possession, until further assistance can be rendered by
Gov". I have selected you for that duty, and placed under your charge
Absalom Hobbs O. S.
It will be your duty so far as it may be in your power, to render
every assistance to such American Citizens as may visit the Island,
to make yourself acquainted with its general resources, and to obtain
a knowledge of the navigation of the contiguous waters, that in case
of necessity you may be enabled to officiate as a Pilot to such of our
Cruisers as may hereafter visit the Harbour.
Previous to my return to the U. States, I shall call for the purpose
of taking you from the Island, in the mean-time you will probably
receive additional instructions from the Honb" Sect’ himself, or some
one of our Naval officers.
I am Sir. Respectfully. Your Obdt Servt
M. C. PERRY.
MID" JoSEPH MooRHEAD, U. S. Navy Thompsons Island
I certify the above to be a true Copy. S. F. Hazard. C. C.
AN ACT ESTABLISHING THE TERRITORY OF FLORIDA
[NA:SD, Original Statutes:DS 48]
[March 30, 1822)
An Act for the establishment of a territorial government in Florida.”
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That all that territory ceded
by Spain to the United States, known by the name of East and West
Florida, shall constitute a territory of the United States, under the
** Printed also in 3 STAT. 654–659. A collation of the original manuscript text
with the official printed Statutes version discloses numerous discrepancies: there
are in excess of fifty changes in punctuation alone in the latter printing. In some
instances additional punctuation points are inserted; in others, points found in
the original are omitted; and in still others, the punctuation of the original has
been changed. Additional differences of minor consequence are also found in
the printed version.
* In his message to the Congress, Dec. 3, 1821 (Richardson, comp., Messages
and Papers, II, 672–674), the President reviewed, in some detail, the difficulties
encountered in the administration of Florida Territory under the act approved
Mar. 3, 1821 (ante, p. 5) during the tenure of Andrew Jackson (see post, p. 661),
and recommended early action by the Congress. A bill to that end was intro-
duced in the Senate Feb. 6, 1822, which became law with the President's approval
Mar. 30, 1822. The legislative history of this action is found in Senate Journal,
17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 115, 122, 146, 155, 164, 166, 176, 229; House Journal, 17
Cong., 1 sess., pp. 328, 333, 340, 395–396, 404, 407,410, 420; Annals of Cong., 17
Cong., 1 sess., cols. 182, 194, 225–226, 238,277–278,279, 344, 803, 1238, 1244, 1268,
1874–1377, 1379. The original Senate bill (printed) is in NA (HF, 17 Cong.).
No other items have survived.



390 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A PERS
name of the Territory of Florida, the government whereof shall be
organized and administered as follows: *—
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That the executive power shall
be vested in a governor, who shall reside in the said territory and hold
his office during the term of three years, unless sooner removed by the
President of the United States.” He shall be commander in chief of
the militia of the said territory, and be ex officio superintendent of
Indian Affairs, and shall have power to grant pardons for offences
against the said territory, and reprieves for those against the United
States, until the decision of the President of the United States thereon
shall be made known; * and to appoint and commission all officers,
civil and of the militia, whose appointments are not herein otherwise
provided for, and which shall be established by law. He shall take
care that the laws be faithfully executed.”—
* Within the text of this law are embodied the chief principles of territorial
(colonial) government as originally laid down in the Northwest Ordinance of
July 13, 1787, and its essential amendments, of Aug. 7, 1789, and May 8, 1792
(Terr. Papers, N.W., II, 39–50,203–204,395–396). There were of course additions
and subtractions from that early pattern as well as modifying and clarifying
passages not only in the text of the above instrument but also in the several
basic laws for the governments of the Southwest, Mississippi, Indiana, Orleans,
Michigan, Louisiana-Missouri, Illinois, Alabama, and Arkansas territories, all of
which preceded the establishment of Florida Territory. Cf. texts of acts, in
sequence, printed ibid., III, 86–88, IV, 18–19, V, 18–22, IX, 202–213,405–407, x,
5–7, xIII, 92–95, xiv, 552–559, xv.1, 6–8, xvii.1, 53–57, and xIx, 44–50. Specifi-
cally, the passages in sections two, three, and four above are found in each of the
laws cited; they stem directly from the Northwest Ordinance and its amending
acts. The fact of the omission of a direct mention of the original Ordinance
therefore has no significance, although it is specifically cited in the laws establish-
ing the Southwest, Mississippi, Indiana, Orleans, Michigan, and Illinois territories,
and, on the other hand, reference to the Ordinance is omitted in the acts creating
the Louisiana-Missouri, Alabama, Arkansas territories. See expository article
by Clarence E. Carter, “Apprenticeship for Statehood” (Dept. of State Bulletin,
XII (June 17, 1945), 1109–1114); and id., “Colonialism in Continental United
States” (South Atlantic Quarterly, XLVII [January, 1948), 17–28). For a new,
scholarly treatment of the Northwest Ordinance, with special reference to its
origin, imperfections and influence in the structure of succeeding territories, see
Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), LAws ILL. TERR. (IHC, xxv, Springfield, 1950),
Introduction.
* This was the fourth territory out of the eleven thus far established in which
limited tenure was applied, the others having been Orleans, Missouri, and
Arkansas. See post, p. 469.
* From the beginning of territorial history the power of the Governor to grant
pardons had been viewed as implied, and had been executed on occasion (Phil-
brick, op. cit., p. cccclxiv). The first direct grant of the power of pardon is found
in an act approved Mar. 26, 1804 (Terr. Papers, Orleans, Ix, 204, 210), which
established Orleans Territory and the District of Louisiana. The authority in
question was again conferred upon the Governor in an act approved June 4, 1812
(ibid., La.-Mo., XIV, 553), establishing Missouri Territory.
* Notably missing is the power of veto, a situation remedied in the amendatory
act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 751, sec. 6).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 391
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That a secretary of the territory
shall also be appointed, who shall hold his office during the term of
four years, unless sooner removed by the President of the United
States, whose duty it shall be, under the direction of the governor, to
record and preserve all the papers and proceedings of the executive,
and all the acts of the governor and legislative council, and transmit
authentic copies of the proceedings of the governor, in his Executive
Department, every six months to the President of the United States.”—
SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That in case of the death, removal,
resignation, or necessary absence of the governor of the said territory,
the secretary thereof shall be, and he is hereby authorized and re-
quired to execute all the powers, and perform all the duties of the
governor during the vacancy occasioned by the removal, resignation
or necessary absence of the said governor.”—
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That the legislative power shall be
vested in the governor, and in thirteen of the most fit and discreet
persons of the territory,” to be called the Legislative Council, who
shall be appointed annually by the President of the United States, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among the citizens
of the United States residing there.” The governor, by and with the
advice and consent of the said legislative council, or a majority of
them shall have power to alter, modify, or repeal the laws which may
be in force at the commencement of this act. Their legislative
* The Executive Register for the Territory of Florida for the period covered by
this volume, such as that published in Terr. Papers (Ill.), XVII, pp. 617–672, has
not been found in the records of the Department of State in the National Archives,
nor is the original in the custody of the Secretary of State of the State of Florida.
The records of the executive department of the Territory of Florida have been
imperfectly preserved. For information concerning them, see David Y. Thomas,
“Report on the Public Archives of Florida,” Amer. Hist. Assoc. Ann. Rept.,
1906, II, 149–158; U. S. Library of Congress, Photoduplication Service, A Guide
to the Microfilm Collection of Early State Records, collected and compiled under the
direction of William S. Jenkins, edited by Lillian A. Hamrick (Washington, 1950);
and for certain records in the custody of the Florida Historical Society, see
Historical Records Survey, Florida, Guide to Depositories of Manuscript Collections
in the United States: Florida (Jacksonville, 1940), p. 7.
** See sec. 4 of act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 750–754), which prohibits
the Governor from leaving the territory without the permission of the President.
This restriction was removed by sec. 6 of act approved May 26, 1824 (4 STAT. 47).
* This is the second occasion in which the normal arrangement, stemming
from the Ordinance of 1787, empowering the Governor and Judges to pass or
adopt laws for the territory during the first stage of government has been changed
to exclude the Judges from legislative duties and to substitute a Legislative
Council. The above section is predicated on a similar provision in the act
approved Mar. 26, 1804, establishing the Territory of Orleans (Terr. Papers,
Orleans, IX, 204).
* The process of legislation by the Governor and Council is further amplified
in an act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 751–752); see sec. 6, p. 751. This
section was repealed by an act approved May 15, 1826 (4 STAT. 164–167).



392 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
powers shall also extend to all the rightful subjects of legislation; but
no law shall be valid which is inconsistent with the constitution and
laws of the United States, or which shall lay any person under
restraint, burthen, or disability, on account of his religious opinions,
professions or worship; in all which he shall be free to maintain his
own, and not burthened with those of another.” The governor shall
publish throughout the said territory, all the laws which shall be
made, and shall, on or before the first day of December in each year,
report the same to the President of the United States, to be laid
before Congress, which, if disapproved by Congress, shall thenceforth
be of no force. The governor and legislative council shall have no
power over the primary disposal of the soil, nor to tax the lands of
the United States, nor to interfere with the claims to lands within said
territory; the legislative council shall hold a session once in each year,
commencing its first session on the second Monday of June next, at
Pensacola,” and continue in session, not longer than two months; and
thereafter, on the first Monday in May in each and every year, but
shall not continue longer in session than four weeks, to be held at such
place in said territory as the governor and council shall direct. It
shall be the duty of the governor to obtain all the information in his
power, in relation to the customs, habits and dispositions of the
inhabitants of the said territory, and communicate the same from
time to time to the President of the United States.—
SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That the judicial power shall be
vested in two superior courts, and in such inferior courts and justices
of the peace as the legislative council of the territory may, from time
to time, establish. There shall be a superior court for that part of
the territory known as East Florida, to consist of one judge.” He
shall hold a court on the first Mondays in January, April, July, and
October, in each year, at St. Augustine, and at such other times and
places as the legislative council shall direct. There shall be a superior
court for that part of the territory known as West Florida, to consist
of one judge.” He shall hold a court at Pensacola, on the first Mon-
* In an act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 751–752), amending the above law,
the following provision was added at this point of the text: “nine of whom shall
constitute a quorum to do business.” The amending act also contains the follow-
ing language at this point: “or from among the inhabitants of the territory,
resident there at the cession; but no person shall be eligible as a member of the
said legislative council, who shall not have resided in the said territory at least
six months previous to his appointment.” Another amending act, approved
May 15, 1826 (4 STAT. 164–167), provided for the popular election of the thirteen
members of the Council.
* In the amending act of 1823 “St. Augustine, or at such other place or places,
as the governor and council may, from time to time, direct” was here substituted.
* See post, p. 416.
* See post, p. 451,



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 393
days in January, April, July, and October, in each year, and at such
other times and places as the legislative council shall direct. Within
its limits, herein described, each court shall have jurisdiction in all
criminal cases, and exclusive jurisdiction in all capital cases, and origi-
nal jurisdiction in all civil cases of the value of one hundred dollars,
arising under and cognizable by the laws of the territory now of force
therein, or which may at any time be enacted by the legislative council
thereof. Each judge shall appoint a clerk for his respective court,
who shall reside respectively at St. Augustine and Pensacola, and
they shall keep the records there. Each clerk shall receive for his
services in all cases arising under the territorial laws, such fees as
may be established by the legislative council."—
SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That each of said superior courts
shall moreover have and exercise the same jurisdiction, within its
limits, in all cases arising under the laws and constitution of the
United States, which, by an act to establish the judicial power of
the United States, approved the twenty fourth day of September,
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, and an act in addition
to the act, entitled “An act to establish the judicial courts of the
United States,” approved the second day of March, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three, was vested in the court of the Ken-
tucky District.” And writs of error and appeal from the decisions
* Subsequent legislation modifying the sections of this act relating to the
superior courts include the acts approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 752), May 26,
1824 (4 STAT. 45–47), May 15, 1826 (4 STAT. 164–165), and Mar. 3, 1827 (4 STAT.
241). The act of May 26, 1824, established a court of appeals, concerning which
there was a further act approved July 14, 1832 (4 STAT. 600–601). For an
analysis of the acts of Congress and the acts of the Legislative Council relative
to the courts in the territory, see Charles D. Farris, “Courts of Territorial Florida”
(Fla. Hist. Quar., XIX [Apr. 1941]) 346–367. In Amer. Ins. Co. v. Canter (1 Peters
511) Justice Marshall held that the Florida territorial courts, the judges of which
were limited to four years, were not constitutional courts; they were purely
legislative in character and their jurisdiction was not, therefore, a part of the
judicial power of the United States as defined by the Constitution. The limited
tenure principle, as defined in the above text (also found in the organic acts
establishing Orleans, Missouri, and Arkansas territories) appears to have been
one of Marshall's principal arguments in support of his opinion that territorial
courts could not function as courts of the United States. In all the other ter-
ritories established anterior to 1828, with the exceptions mentioned, the judges'
tenure was during good behavior. It is important to note that the opinion in
question was basic for the remainder of the territories established by the United
States. For a full discussion, see William B. Hamilton, Anglo-American Law:
Thomas Rodney and his Territorial Cases (Duke Univ. Press, Durham, 1953),
pp. 91–124.
* This is the second instance in which, in Federal territorial legislation, the
U. S. District Court of Kentucky is cited as defining the Federal jurisdiction of
the territorial Supreme Court; the first having been in the act approved Mar. 26,
1804, establishing the Territory of Orleans (Terr. Papers, Orleans, IX, 208). A



394 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
in the said superior courts, authorized by this section of this act,
shall be made to the supreme court of the United States, in the same
cases, and under the same regulations, as from the circuit courts of
the United States. The clerks respectively shall keep the records” at
the places where the courts are held, and shall receive in all cases
arising under the laws and constitution of the United States, the same
fees which the clerk of the Kentucky district received for similar
services, whilst that court exercised the powers of the circuit and
district courts. There shall be appointed in the said territory two
persons learned in the law, to act as attorneys for the United States,
as well as for the territory; one, for that part of the territory known as
East Florida, the other for that part of the territory known as West
Florida; to each of whom, in addition to his stated fees, shall be paid
annually two hundred dollars, as a full compensation for all extra
services. There shall also be appointed two marshals, one, for each of
the said superior courts, who shall each perform the same duties, be
subject to the same regulations and penalties, and be entitled to the
same fees, to which marshals in other districts are entitled for similar
services; and shall in addition be paid the sum of two hundred dollars
annually, as a compensation for all extra services.—
SEC. 8. And be it further enacted, That the governor, secretary,
judges of the superior courts, district attorneys, marshals, and all
general officers of the militia, shall be appointed by the President
of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
All judicial officers shall hold their offices for the term of four years
and no longer. The governor, secretary, judges, members of the
legislative council, justices of the peace, and all other officers, civil
and of the militia, before they enter upon the duties of their respective
offices, shall take an oath or affirmation to support the constitution
of the United States, and for the faithful discharge of the duties of
their office; the governor, before the President of the United States,
or before a judge of the supreme or district court of the United States,
or before such other person as the President of the United States
shall authorize to administer the same; the Secretary, judges, and
members of the legislative council, before the governor;” and all
other officers before such persons as the governor shall direct. The
description of the jurisdiction of the Kentucky court is found in an act approved
Sept. 24, 1789 (1 STAT. 77–78, 79–80), and it is further amplified in an act approved
Mar. 3, 1805 (2 STAT. 338). For a valuable discussion, see Hamilton, Anglo-
American Law on the Frontier, pp. 93–95.
* Information relative to these records can be found in Survey of Federal
Archives, Florida, Inventory of Federal Archives in the States, Series II, The
Federal Courts, No. 9, Florida (Jacksonville, Fla., 1940).
* This provision created at least one awkward situation (post, p. 554).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 395
governor shall receive an annual salary of two thousand five hundred
dollars,” the Secretary, of one thousand five hundred dollars,”
and the judges, of one thousand five hundred dollars,” each, to be
paid quarter yearly out of the Treasury of the United States. The
members of the legislative council shall receive three dollars, each,
per day during their attendance in council, and three dollars for every
twenty miles in going to, and returning from, any meeting of the
legislative council, once in each session, and no more. The members
of the legislative council shall be privileged from arrest, except in
cases of treason, felony, and breach of the peace during their going
to, attendance at, and returning from, each session of said council.
SEC. 9. And be it further enacted, That the following acts,” that is
to say: “An act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States,” approved April thirtieth, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety,” and all acts in addition, or supplementary thereto, which
are now in force.” “An act to provide for the punishment of crimes
and offences, committed within the Indian boundaries,” approved
March third one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.” “An act
in addition to the act for the punishment of certain crimes against
the United States, and to repeal the acts therein mentioned,” ap-
proved April twentieth, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.”
“An act for the punishment of crimes therein specified,” approved
January thirtieth, one thousand seven hundred and ninety nine.”
*The bill as passed by the Senate provided for an annual salary of $3000 (Annals,
17 Cong., 1 sess., col. 226); an attempt had been made to fix the salary of the
Governor at $5000, which had been accorded to the Governor of Louisiana
Territory (Terr. Papers, Orleans, Ix, 206), as well as to Governor Jackson during
the transition government of Florida Territory. The bill as finally passed,
however, contained the above figure. Presumably the House amended the bill
to that effect, but no proof is found in either the House Journal or in the Annals
as to the nature of the amendments attached to the bill by the lower House.
There are no manuscripts or printed records relating to the matter in the legis-
lative records found in the National Archives.
* A stipend of $1000 was first proposed in the Senate; the above salary was
then adopted (Annals, op. cit.).
*7 Extensive discussion arose concerning the Judges' salaries, which turned
on such items as the cost of living, duties, abilities and learning required, and a
comparison of stipands allowed Judges in other territories. A salary of $2000
was at first proposed and defeated; a motion for a salary of $1800 was also lost.
Agreement was then reached on the above named salary (ibid.).
* Listing of acts of Congress as applicable to the new territory was, up to this
time, almost exceptional; the only other instance of embodying such a list in the
fundamental law of a territory was that enacted for the establishment of Orleans
Territory, approved Mar. 26, 1804 (Terr. Papers, Orleans, IX, 206–207).
69 1 STAT. 112–119.
70 See note to the above, p. 112.
71 3 STAT. 383.
72 3 STAT. 447–450.
73 1 STAT. 613.



396 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
“An act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from
the service of their masters,” approved twelfth February, one thou-
sand seven hundred and ninety three.” “An act to prohibit the
carrying on the slave trade from the United States to any foreign
place or country,” approved March twenty second, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety nine.” “An act in addition to the act,
entitled ‘An act to prohibit the carrying on the slave trade from the
United States to any foreign place or country,” approved May tenth,
one thousand eight hundred.” The “act to prohibit the importation
of slaves into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United
States, from and after the first day of January, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand eight hundred and eight,” approved March second,
one thousand eight hundred and seven.” “An act to prevent settle-
ments being made on lands ceded to the United States, until author-
ized by law,” approved March third, one thousand eight hundred and
seven.” “An act in addition to ‘an act to prohibit the importation
of slaves into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United
States, from and after the first day of January, in the year of our
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and eight, and to repeal certain
parts of the same,” approved April twentieth, one thousand eight
hundred and eighteen.” “An act in addition to the acts prohibiting
the slave trade,” approved March third, one thousand eight hundred
and nineteen.” “An act to establish the post office of the United
States.” “ “An act further to alter and establish certain post roads,
and for the more secure carriage of the mail of the United States.” ”
“An act for the more general promulgation of the laws of the United
States.” ” “An act in addition to an act, entitled ‘An act for the
more general promulgation of the laws of the United States.” “ “An
act to provide for the publication of the laws of the United States,
and for other purposes,”.” “An act to promote the progress of useful
arts, and to repeal the act heretofore made for that purpose.” "
“An act to extend the privilege of obtaining patents for useful dis-
74 1 STAT. 302–305.
75 Should be Mar. 22, 1794 (1 STAT. 347–349).
7s 2 STAT. 70–71.
77 2 STAT. 426–430.
7s 2 STAT. 445–446. This act was made a part of the law establishing Florida
Territory at the instance of Sen. Williams, of Mississippi (Annals, 17 Cong.,
1 sess., col. 226).
79 3 STAT. 450–453.
so 3 STAT. 532–534.
st Approved Apr. 30, 1810, 2 StAt. 592–604.
* Approved May 3, 1802, 2 STAT. 189–192.
* Approved Mar. 27, 1804, 2 StAt. 302–303.
* Approved Mar. 3, 1795, 1 STAT. 443.
ss Approved Apr. 20, 1818, 3 STAT. 439–440.
* Approved Feb. 21, 1793, 1 STAT. 318–323.



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 397
coveries and inventions to certain persons therein mentioned, and to
enlarge and define the penalties for violating the right of patentees.”
“An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of such
copies, during the time therein mentioned;” * the act supplementary
thereto, and for extending the benefits thereof to the arts of designing,
engraving and etching historical and other prints.” “An act to pre-
scribe the mode in which the public acts, records and judicial pro-
ceedings in each State shall be authenticated, so as to take effect in
any other State.” ” “An act supplementary to the act, entitled
“An act to prescribe the mode in which the public acts, records and
judicial proceedings in each state shall be acknowledged, so as to take
effect in any other state.” ” “An act for establishing trading houses
with the Indian tribes;” and the several acts continuing the same.”
“An act making provision relative to rations for Indians, and their
visits to the seat of government.” ” And the laws of the United
States relating to the revenue, and its collection,” subject to the
modification stipulated by the fifteenth article of the treaty of the
twenty second February, one thousand eight hundred and nine,” in
favour of Spanish vessels and their cargoes,” and all other public
laws of the United States which are not repugnant to the provisions
of this act, shall extend to, and have full force and effect in the
territory aforesaid.—
SEC. 10. And be it further enacted, That to the end, that the inhab-
itants may be protected in their liberty, property, and the exercise
of their religion no law shall ever be valid which shall impair or in
any way restrain the freedom of religious opinions, professions or
worship. They shall be entitled to the benefit of the writ of Habeas
Corpus. They shall be bailable in all cases, except for capital offences,
where the proof is evident, or the presumption great. All fines shall
* Approved Apr. 17, 1800, 2 STAT. 37–38.
* Approved May 31, 1790, 1 STAT. 124–126.
* Approved Apr. 29, 1802, 2 STAT. 171–172.
20 Approved May 26, 1790, 1 STAT. 122.
* Approved Mar. 27, 1804, 2 STAT. 298.
* A system of government trading houses among the Indian tribes was begun
with an appropriation provided by an act of Mar. 3, 1795 (1 STAT. 443), and ex-
tended and continued by subsequent acts which are listed in a note in 2 STAT.
652. An act approved May 6, 1822 (3 STAT. 679–680) abolished the system before
any trading houses were established in the Territory of Florida (Edgar B. Wesley,
“The Government Factory System among the Indians, 1795–1822,” Jour. Econ.
and Bus. Hist., IV [May 1932), 487–511).
* Approved May 13, 1800, 2 STAT. 85.
* See the act approved Mar. 3, 1815, 3 STAT. 231–235.
95 The correct date for the treaty is Feb. 22, 1819.
96 See the act concerning the commerce and navigation of Florida, approved
Mar. 30, 1822, 3 STAT. 660–661.



398 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
be moderate and proportioned to the offence; and excessive bail shall
not be required, nor cruel or unusual punishments inflicted. No ex
post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, shall ever
be passed, nor shall private property be taken for public uses, without
just compensation.”—
SEC. 11. And be it further enacted, That all free male white persons,
who are housekeepers, and who shall have resided one year at least
in the said territory, shall be qualified to act as grand and petit jurors
in the courts of the said territory; and they shall, until the legislature
thereof shall otherwise direct, be selected in such manner as the judges
of the said courts shall respectively prescribe, so as to be most con-
ducive to an impartial trial, and to be least burthensome to the inhab-
itants of the said territory.-
SEC. 12. And be it further enacted, That it shall not be lawful for
any person or persons to import or bring into the said territory from
any port or place without the limits of the United States, or cause
or procure to be so imported or brought, or knowingly to aid or assist
in so importing or bringing any slave or slaves. And every person
so offending, and being thereof convicted before any court within the
said territory having competent jurisdiction, shall forfeit and pay for
each and every slave so imported or brought, the sum of three hun-
dred dollars, one moiety for the use of the United States, and the other
moiety for the use of the person or persons who shall sue for the same;
and every slave so imported or brought shall thereupon become en-
titled to, and receive his or her freedom.—
SEC. 13. And be it further enacted, That the laws in force in the
said territory at the commencement of this act, and not inconsistent
with the provisions thereof, shall continue in force until altered, modi-
fied, or repealed by the legislature.”—
SEC. 14. And be it further enacted, That the citizens of the said
territory shall be entitled to one delegate to Congress for the said
territory, who shall possess the same powers heretofore granted to
the delegates from the several territories of the United States. The
said delegate shall be elected by such description of persons, at such
* In the House a motion was made by Rep. Montgomery, of Kentucky, to strike
out this section (section nine of one of the draft bills), and to substitute therefor
a simple statement that the Constitution and the laws of Congress were applicable
to the new territory. But Rep. Rhea, of Tennessee, successfully argued against
the motion, declaring that new citizens of alien extraction would not understand
such compact language, which did not specifically emphasize the American
principles of constitutional liberty (Annals, 17 Cong., 1 sess., cols. 1374–1377).
* Referring to the ordinances promulgated by Governor Jackson. See ante,
p. 133.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 399
times, and under such regulations as the governor and legislative
council may, from time to time, ordain and direct.”
PHILIP P. BARBOUR
Speaker of the House of Representatives
JOHN GAILLARD
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
WASHINGTON. March 30. 1822. approved
JAMES MONROE
I certify that this act did originate in the Senate.”
CHRISTOPHER RANKIN,” THOMAS H. WILLIAMS AND
DAVID HOLMES4 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
WASHINGTON April 1. 1822
SIR/Intimately connected with the correct examination and de-
cision, of the claims to land in Florida, is a proclamation of the King
of Spain alledged to have been issued, in 1786, requiring British sub-
jects who were allowed a reasonable time, by the treaty of 1783
between England and Spain, to dispose of there lands and effects
within the provinces of East and West Florida, to make such disposi-
tion within a limited time. It is beleived that the time first fixed was
extended by subsequent proclamations.
It is also beleived, that many of the British subjects having failed
to comply, with the requisitions of the Treaty and proclamations,
applied to their government for indemnity, for the loss of their lands
& that commissioners were appointed, in consequence of those appli-
cations, who awarded to the claimants what was considered a com-
pensation for the lands supposed to be forfeited, for a failure to comply
with the terms prescribed, in the proclamations of the King of Spain.
Not only a very large portion of American citizens deriving their
claims to land from Spain & the U. States are interested, in procuring
authentic copies of those proclamations and the proceedings of the
* This section was not in the original bill as reported from the Judiciary Com-
mittee of the Senate. It is now found in handwritten form at the end of the
printed bill. See post, p. 528, n.
1 This act was repealed by the amendatory act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT.
750–754), which, however, repeated much of the language of the above text.
Certain exceptions have already been noted, but there were certain other additions
to and subtractions from the original act which in no way changed its fundamental
character.
* The signature normally following this certification is covered by the binding
of the volume containing the Original Statutes; the signature is probably that of
Charles Cutts, Secretary of the Senate.
* A Representative in Congress from Mississippi.
* A Senator of the United States from Mississippi.



400 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
commissioners supposed to be appointed by the British government;
but our government is also interested to a very large amount, in
ascertaining the extent of our national domain. The object of the
present application is to solicit, that you will have the goodness to
obtain, through our ministers at London & Madrid, authentic copies
of the documents referred to, in this communication.”
We have the honor to be yours very respectfully
CHRISTOPHER RANKIN
THO H. WILLIAMS
DAVID HOLMES
[Addressed] John Q. Adams Esqr
[Endorsed] 1 April 1822 Mess" Rankin, Williams & Holmes. con-
cerning Florida Records.
E-
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, X:ALS)
Executive Department East Florida
ST AUGUSTINE April 2** 1822.
SIR-I determined to issue the enclosed Decree this day:-But
considering my ephemeral existence as Governor here I have declined
it, till I shall have communicated it to the Gen' Gov'—Besides the
New Governor & Legislative Council may act on it unembarrassed—
Yet I have no doubt of the correctness of the Principle—
I see the Independence of S. America is about to be acknowledged—
If the President will have no objections, to send me thither—I will go
with pleasure & pledge my Honor & my life to discharge, faithfully the
duties which may be assigned me—
with distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of the Province of East Florida
THE HONBLE J. QUINCY ADAMS Secº of State—
[Addressed] The Honble J. Quincy Adams Secy of State Washington
City.
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—
[Enclosure]
Decree of Acting Governor Worthington
[April 2, 1822)
A Public and General Decree By W. G. D. Worthington, Secretary and
Acting Governor of the Province of East Florida—
In conformity to the practice heretofore existing in the Province, in
accordance with the best feelings of Humanity, and the high and
* No reply found.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 401
sacred notions with which it becomes the Citizens of a free and vir-
tuous Republic, to regard, not only mental, but personal liberty.
I do hereby ordain and Decree—That from and after the Fourth day
of July, One Thousand eight hundred and twenty two—Imprisonment
for Debt in and throughout this Province shall be and is hereby
forever abolished—That the Creditor shall have no power to confine
the Body of the Debtor in any case whatever—But, the Property
whether real, personal or mixed, of every Debtor shall be always liable
for the payment of his just debts—except the necessary wearing
apparel, Bed and bedding of himself and family.—Given at St Augus-
tine this 2" day of April, in the Year of our Lord. One Thousand
eight hundred and twenty two, and of the Independence of the United
States of America the Forty Sixth–
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Governor &c
[Endorsed] Decree of the 2* of April 1822.
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF
EAST FLORIDA
[NA:SF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
April 2" 1822.
To the Senate & House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress Assembled—
The undersigned Citizens & Inhabitants of the Province of East
Florida, do most respectfully Petition Congress, that they will at
their present Session, pass an act, to lay out & open a large & conven-
ient public Road from the City of Sº Augustine to Pensacola: & appro-
priate an adequate Sum for that object under such regulations & in
such manner as to them in their wisdom shall seem proper—
W. G. D. Worthington H P Dawes
Abrm Eustis Ja" Y Tingle
J. G. Forbes H. Dousman
J. Rodman Alexander Hamilton
G A Gaither Charles W. Bulow
Jn” Drysdale Ray Sands
G. W. Perpall John Boswell
F.J. Fatio W* Levingston
Edmund Law J. R. Hanham
P. Pelham
[Endorsed] 131 17 Cong 1 Sess L Petition of W. G. D. Worthington
and others of Florida praying a road may be formed from the City of
St. Augustine to Pensacola. 1822 April 25. read and referred to
Com” on Roads and Canals." March 29. Discharged 7
* Senate Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 306.
7 Ibid., p. 312.
301867–57—27



402 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
THE PRESIDENT TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
[NA:HF, Orig. Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:C 8]
[April 5, 1822]
To the House of Representatives of the U. States:
I communicate herewith to the House, a Report from the Secretary
of War” containing the information requested by their Resolution of
the 5th Ulto 10
It may be proper further to add that the Secretaries of both the
territories have occasionally required and received the aid of the
military force of the U. States stationed within them, respectively, to
carry into effect the acts of their authority.
The government of East and West Florida was, under the Spanish
dominion, almost exclusively military, the governors of both were
military officers, and united in their own persons the chief authority
both civil and military.
The principle upon which the act of Congress of the last session
providing for the temporary government of the newly ceded provinces,
was carred into execution, has been communicated to Congress in
my message at the opening of the session.” It was to leave the author-
ities of the country, as they were found existing at the time of the
cession to be exercised until the meeting of Congress, when it was
known that the introduction of a system, more congenial to our own
institutions, would be one of the earliest and most important subjects
of their deliberations. From this, among other obvious considera-
tions, military officers were appointed to take possession of both
provinces; But as the military command of General Jackson was to
cease on the 1* of June; General Gaines the officer next in command
then here who was first designated to take possession of East Florida,
received from me a verbal direction to give such effect to any requisi-
tion from the Governor for military aid to enforce his authority, as
the circumstances might require. It was not forseen that the com-
mand in both the provinces would before further legislation by Con-
gress on that subject devolve upon the Secretaries of the territories,
but, had it been foreseen, the same direction would have been given
as applicable to them.
No authority has been given to either of the Secretaries to issue
commands to that portion of the Army which is in Florida; and when-
ever the aid of the military has been required by them it has been by
8 Copy in NA (SD, Report Book, Iv), printed in H. Doc. 108, 17 Cong., 1 sess.;
House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 436–437, Annals, 17 Cong., 1 sess., II, cols.
1489–1490; Pensacola Floridian, May 18, 1822.
* Merely a transmittal letter, this is printed in the places cited in the previous
footnote.
1° House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 311–312.
u Ibid., pp. 16–17; Messages and Papers of the Pres., II, 672–673.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 403
written requisitions to the officers commanding the troops who have
yielded compliance thereto, doubtless under the directions received
from General Gaines, as understood by him to be authorized.
Shortly before the meeting of Congress, a letter was received at the
War Department from Col" Brooke, the officer commanding at Pen-
sacola, requesting instructions how far he was to consider these requi-
sitions as authoritative; but the assurance that a new organization of
the Government was immediately to be authorized by Congress was
a motive for superseding any specific decision upon the inquiry.
JAMES MONROE
WASHINGTON 5* April 1822.
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON (WEST FLORIDA) TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
PENSACOLA. 8" Ap' 1822
HoN JOHN Q. ADAMS Secty of State
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 22” Feby last tº confirming the Authority vested in me by the
commission of Gen' Jackson, and instructing me to discharge from
Confinement Marcos de Villers and Arnaldo Guillemard, which in-
structions have been complied with promptly & with pleasure.
I have learned by the public prints, as well as by private letters
from Washington, that the imprisonment of those Gentlemen has
been the subject of a warm debate in Congress,” and that in the
course of it, my Official conduct and character, have been very severely
animadverted on, but I trust that ere this the erroneous impressions
on this Subject which appear to have been entertained by some
Gentlemen in Congress will have been removed by the information
which is contained in my letter to Gen' Jackson * on this subject,
and which has been communicated by him to the President
By the instructions of Gen' Jackson " (of the tenor of which these
Officers were well informed) it was made my duty to arrest and im-
prison any of the Officers included in Gen' Jacksons proclamation who
should return without permission. I suffered these Gentlemen to
remain two days in Pensacola unnoticed, in the hope, that they would
themselves notify me of their arrival, and ask permission to remain,
And it was with regret that I issued the warrant on the Third day.
When brought before me, so explicit were my instructions on the
12 Ante, p. 369.
1° Annals, 17 Cong., 1 sess., I, cols. 1138–1146, 1147–1149.
14 Ante, p. 347.
19 Amte, p. 229.



404 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
subject that no discretion was left to me exceptin the manner of their
imprisonment, And this I ordered to be a Confinement to their own
dwellings, upon their parole of honor, And further to give them every
liberty consistent with my own duty, as a Subordinate Officer, I sent
my Sec” to inform them, that upon their application for leave to
attend to their private buisness in this Province, it would at all times
be granted to them for ten or twelve days, and would be renewed at
their pleasure until I should be further instructed by Gen' Jackson
Under these circumstances as I felt myself bound to offer an excuse
to Gen' Jackson for not following the strict letter of his instructions,
so I felt myself entitled to the gratitud of these gentlemen for the
liberality with which I had construed them—I could not therefore have
expected any memorial from them could contain authority for such
unjust censure upon my conduct in this affair as appears to have been
pass'd upon it in the course of this debate—It will appear to the
President that as I did not receive notice of Gen'J" resignation until a
few days of the time of receiving yours of the 22” Feby I had not the
authority absolutely to relieve them, but for those few days, if I had
it at all previous to the recognition of my authority contained in your
letter.
I hope Sir you have taken similar views of this Subject and that I
shall stand justifyed in the estimation of yourself and of the President
I have the honor to be Very Resptly Your Obt Serv-
GEO. WALTON
[Addressed] Hon” John Q Adams Secty of State
[Endorsed] Geo. Walton—
JOHN RODMAN TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Custom-house ST. AUGUSTINE 8* April 1822
SIR, In conformity with the provisions of the 4* and 5* Sections
of the Act of Congress of the 2° March 1819, entitled “An Act regu-
lating Passenger Ships and vessels” ” I have the honour herewith to
transmit lists of the passengers, arriving from foreign Countries into
this District, from the period of the cession of the Floridas to the
United States, up to the 31* day of March last.”
I perceive, by recurring to the act, that these returns should be
made quarter yearly. This circumstance was over-looked, during the
first quarter, after entering upon the duties of my office here. In
future the returns shall be regularly made.
10 3 STAT. 488–489.
17 Not present and not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 405
I had the honour to address a letter to you, under date of the 11”
of December last, requesting instructions in regard to some of the
Slave acts.” I am yet without the favour of your answer.
The principal difficulty is, in regard to the transportation of Slaves
from this Territory to the United States Coast-wise, which Slaves may
have been either born here, or imported into this Territory from
foreign Countries, since the 1* of January 1808, and previously to
the Cession of the Floridas to the United States.
I desired also to know whether permission could be given to any of
the Inhabitants of this Territory, who were such at the time of the
cession, and who were going to the Havana, for a short time, to settle
their affairs, to take with them, and bring back, any of their domestic
Slaves, as personal Servants.”
With great respect I have the honour to be Sir your obedient
Servant
JOHN RODMAN Collector of St. Augustine
THE HONBLE. JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] The Honble. John Quincy Adams
[Endorsed] Rodman John—Sº Augustine 8 April 1822 Recd 7th
May Slave acts.
CRUISE OF THE REVENUE CUTTER ALABAMA
[LC:Pensacola, Floridian, Apr. 13, 1822)
[Apr. 13, 1822)
Capt. Foster * of the Revenue Cutter Alabama, arrived here this
morning from a cruize on and about the Florida Keys, with two
British sloops, of Nassau, N. P. captured for a violation of the U. S.
laws prohibiting the traffic in slaves and the navigation act. One
other vessel, (American) sloop Sailor's Rights, was also captured for
piratical depredations and other outrages against the laws. She was
manned by Captain Foster with an officer and five men, and
dispatched from Key West on the 8th inst. but has not yet arrived.
We understand that these vessels had on board fifteen or twenty
African slaves.
Mobile Gazette.
is Ante, p. 300.
* No reply found.
* Winslow Foster, NA, TD, CG, U. S. Revenue Marine Records of Officers,
1797–1870.



406 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
JOSEPH M. WHITE 21 TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications: ALS)
FRANKFORT (Ky.), 15th April 1822
SIR I have received a letter from Col" Johnson of the Senate,”
in which he suggested that your Excellency had enquired whether I
would accept of a place in the Legislative council of Florida and
through him tendered the appointment, I should prefer the Office of
Commissioner to settle land claims if it met with your approbation,
the strongest motive I have for removing to that Territory is the
delicate health of my wife and a predisposition to a complaint which
the physicians suppose will be removed by the change of climate, for
this cause only I am induced to abanon a lucrative Office, and extensive
practice in this State to locate myself in Florida, should there be any
applicants for the Office of Commissioner whose claims would demand
their appointment in preference to my humble pretension, I will accept
of a seat in the Legislative Council, and feel myself forever gratefull
for the distinguished evidence of your attention on this as well as on
former occasions
I have the honor to be with high consideration Your Ob" Servant
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe President of the United
States Washington City—[Postmarked] Frank. KApr 16* Free
[Endorsed] 15. April 1822. White Joseph M. Ent Mr White K–
Solicits the office of Commissioner to settle Claims & titles to land in
Florida.
JUDGE DUVAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA: SD, Applications:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY April 16** 1822
SIR Believing that you are not acquainted with the persons
residing in East Florida best quallifyd to compose a part of the Legis-
lative counsel for that Territory— I venture to recommend for your
consideration such gentlemen as I personally know, all of whom are
* Joseph M. White (1781–1839), a native of Franklin County, Ky.; lawyer,
prosecuting attorney, and son-in-law of Governor of Ky.; unsuccessfully sought
appointment (1819) in Alabama and Missouri territories (NA, SD, Applications),
and in 1822, backed by Sen. R. M. Johnson, sought appointment to Fla. Leg.
Council (loc. cit.), to which he was appointed (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 303).
He arrived in Pensacola with his family in June 1822 in the same conveyance that
brought Gov. DuVal (Pensacola Floridian, June 22, 1822); territorial delegate
in Congress, 1825–1837 (Cong. Biog. Directory, 1950 ed., p. 2003); author and
compiler, New Coll. Laws and Charters, etc (1839). See post, p. 489, n. See also
index to this and succeeding volumes of the Florida series for other items re White.
22 Not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 407
inteligent and well informed, and possess in a high degree the respect
and confidence of the People of East Florida.
William M. Gibson Esq. S. Carolina Greenberry. A. Gaither Esq.-
Maryland Edmund Law Esq. District of Col Z. Kingsley " Esq.-
Florida—Peter Mitchell Esq. of Georgia—Joseph M. Hernandez.
Florida Doc" William. H. Simmons of S. Carolina Bernardo Segui-
Florida All these gentlemen from the U. States have resided in
East Florida, since our Government received possession of the coun-
try Those marked. Florida are natives of the country—and have great
influence—which I believe they justly deserve—
These gentlemen, I feel confident will discharge their duties, if
appointed with Integrity and ability—
If population, and extent of Territory, will in any degree influence
the appointment of the members of the Legislative counsel, East
Florida would have the majority of the counsel, as their are eight
thousand souls in East, and but Five thousand in West Florida
If eight of the counsel is taken from East and Five from West
Florida, the representation of each will (as near as it can) be made
equal.
With sentiments of high respect & esteem, I am your ob' Serv"
Wm P. DUVAL
JAMES MONROE President of the United States
[Addressed) James Monroe President of the United States
[Endorsed] 16. April 1822. Duval Wºº P. Recommend the fol-
lowing persons to be members of the Legislative Council in Florida.
W* M Gibson Greenbury A. Gaither Edmund Law. Z. Kingsley
Joseph M. Hernandez William H. Simmons Bernardo Segui
-
JOHN H. ELTON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Masters Commandant, 1822:ALS)
US Brig Spark Off St JoHNs River April 16th 1822
SIR, I wrote you from S*Marys on the 9” ” and directly afterwards
came off this place. A Revenue Cutter & a party of soldiers under
an Officer from Fernandina had been before me on the same errand—
I cannot venture inside with the Brig & was going to form an encamp-
ment & leave a boat officers & men, but a short but severe Tornado
carried away one of our best boats since then I have been in search
of her & our anchors & of course could not well communicate inside—
no vessells were however on the river and Mr Hutton was at St Pablo
from whence they ship their timber—A vessell called the Gipsey is
going in after a load—I have given her the necessary notice.
* Zephaniah Kingsley.
*NA (ND, SN, Captains' Lets.).



408 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
Our boat has been brought back after a two days absence of men
in search of her & is already away again with four weeks provisions
& men under charge of acting Lieut—Davis to afford Mº Hutton
every facility to execute his part of the business as inspector
I shall hover on the coast untill Gun Wessell 168 or some other
shall join me and our boat return.
I believe the depredations will soon cease but the uncertainty of
which are public or which are private property may create some
difficulties, please apprize me how to act”—
Very respfy Your Ob' Hbe Sert
JNo H. ELTON
P. S. Tho" M*Kuen a seamen was lost in the blow
THE HONORABLE SMITH THOMPSON Secretary US Navy Washington
[Addressed] The Honorable Smith Thompson Secretary U S Navy
Washington City. [Postmarked] St Marys April 21 Free
[Endorsed] U. S. Brig Spark off St John's River April 16** 1822
Capt: John. H. Elton Relative to his proceedings in preventing depre-
dations on public land &"
JOHN H. ELTON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Masters Commandant, 1822:ALS)
US Brig Spark off St MARYs RIVER April 17, 1822
SIR, By the return boat I have rec" your letter of the 1* inst”
advising me of a warrant having issued in my favour for four thousand
dollars—The draft is rec" and as I have left a boat officers & crew at
the Sº Johns provisioned for one month, shall proceed to Charleston
& take up our bills, given under a full persuasion that funds would
arrive—I had written you this morning but fearfull of its delay state
that Mr Jas: Hutton will proceed up the river in one of our boats—no
vessells were then in the river The schooner Gipsey is going in after
some for the steam Frigate at New York—I have given her due
warning as to timber cut on public land, but as this is already at the
landing the endorsing her papers may perhaps answer—It will depend
upon circumstances as to her frieght—I believe there will be but
little depredations hereafter—Your directions how to discriminate
between public & private lands would be very acceptable” to sir
Your Ob Hble Sert
JNo H. ELTON
THE HONORABLE SMITH THOMPSON Esq." Secretary U.S. Navy
* See post, p. 417.
2% NA (ND, SN Lets. to Officers Ships of War, Bk. 14). -
27 No reply to this letter has been found, but see post, p. 417.



FLOR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 409
{Addressed] The Honorable Smith Thompson Sect” U S Navy
Washington [Postmarked] Chals" SC Apr 20 free
[Endorsed] Capt. John H. Elton Brig Spark St. Marys R. April
17th. 1822. has recº the draft for $4000 Mr. Hutton proceeded up
St John river
JOHN R. BELL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 101:ALS)
WASHINGTON April 22** 1822.
SIR, The letters from Richards,” Doyle” & several of the Chiefs
of the Florida Indians addressed to General Jackson and accompany-
ing his letter to you of the 12* Jan’ last,” having been handed to
me, I have only to remark that they fully explain the reason of the
non attendance of the Indians west of the Suwana river, at the Talk
appointed to be held at Alachua on the 20" Nov 1821. The Talk
delivered by Gen' Jackson to three of the Chiefs at Pensacola 19”
Sep" 1821,” would have been repeated or formed the basis of the
Talk at Alachua. I had procured as presents for the Indians to
have been delivered at this Talk, between four & five hundred yards
of domestic manufactured cottons, tobacco & a small quantity of
powder & lead and provisions for subsistance during the time of
holding the Talk. The Indians not assembling at the time appointed
& myself being obliged to attend the Gen' Court Martial at S*Augus-
tine * defeated the intention & almost certainty of concluding with
those Indians the preliminaries to a treaty the last year, Under
those circumstances I left the goods in charge of Mº Wanton who
resides at Alachua until difficulties were removed & I should receive
further instructions. The means are therefore at hand & in the
Indian country for holding a Talk and but little expense is necessary
to be incurred in now helding calling the Indians together for con-
* Stephen Richards, interpreter.
* Edmund Doyle.
so NA (WD, SW Lets. Recd., J 40).
*I Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 118–121.
* Captain Bell was tried by general court martial at St. Augustine beginning
Nov. 27, 1821, on charges regarding his conduct as an officer. His sentence of
suspension from duty for 12 months at half pay was approved by Gen. Winfield
Scott (NA, WD, JAG, Court Martial, A 49). Soon afterwards he went to
Washington, without authority, to place his case before the War Department
(Bell to the Adjutant General, Feb. 10, 1822, NA, WD, AGO Lets. Recd.; the
Adjutant General to Bell, Feb. 23, 1822, NA, WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6).
His application for remission of the sentence was successful, and an order to
that effect was issued on Apr. 23, 1822 (NA, WD, AGO General Order Bk.,
1822–1824). Late in 1822 he was transferred to Savannah, Ga., and remained
in the Army until his death in 1825. -



410 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
sultation. The next month is the proper time for doing it, before
they go out on the summer hunt.
On the letter of Mr Worthington Secy of East Florida dated 9th
March 1822 * & the documents to which they refer, I would respect-
fully remark, that the license granted to M' Levy “to purchase 60
horses & 100 head of cattle will greatly distress those Indians, because
if the government concentrate the Florida Indians they must turn
their attention to agricultural pursuits, and in that case, horses &
cattle are absolutely necessary—It should be the objects of the
Agents of Government in Florida to protect the Indians in the little
property they now possess, and I had directed that no sale of negroes,
horses or cattle should be made by the Indians to the inhabitants or
traders of the country before a treaty should be concluded between
them & the United States, when they would be informed of the situa-
tion in which they stood with government & what was there true
interests.
The amount of Anthony Pastor's account against the United States
has been settled & paid by me in full for as much as he is entitled
to receive; he is not worthy of confidence, his character may be found
among the Spanish documents, & transactions which have come to
my knowledge, his services as Interpreter should be discontinued—
Richards now holds the appointment of Interpreter for Seminole
Indians and is no doubt worthy of the confidence reposed in him.
I am of opinion that the Indians East of the Suwana should be
required to move to that section of country between the Suwana &
Appalachacola rivers & that the Agency be established at Fort Gads-
den, Sº Marks or within the country assigned to the Indians which
I believe would be preferable, and I would respectfully propose, that
a government Agent be directed to proceed from Sº Augustin through
the Indian country to Pensacola with a view to examining into the
situation & disposition of the Indians, the most practicable routs for
carrying the mails and the most elligible cite for the Agency in Florida.
My accounts for disbursements in the Indian department in Florida
will be submitted to the Auditor for settlement and if practicable I
will be prepared to set out for Sº Augustin on Thursday next, or at
furtherest on the thursday following, the delay to that day, Would
be to take with me papers & documents from government to its
agents or individuals in that Province.
Most respectfully, I am, Sir, Your ob' Ser"
JN" R. BELL
HON” J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of war
[Endorsed] Bell. Jn" R. Washington 22 April 1822 Relative Indian
Affairs in Florida—
* NA(WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 82).
* Moses Elias Levy.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 411
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THOMAS
NEWTON, JR.”
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:ALS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT 24* April 1822
SIR I have the honor to submit the enclosed communications to
the committee of commerce.
The utility of erecting light houses at all or some of the points
designated cannot be doubted. At present the department is not in
possession of any other evidence, than what is contained in these
papers. An appropriation for two light houses to be erected during
the present year, at such points, upon the Florida reef, or upon cape
Florida as the President shall designate, will perhaps, be as much as
ought to be provided for at the present session. Further information
may be obtained, before the next meeting of Congress, which will
enable that body to decide whether a greater number ought to be
erected.
It is impossible to form a correct estimate of the expense of building
two light houses at this time. It is probable that the materials
will have to be obtained from a distance; and the provisions necessary
to subsist the workmen, as well as the workmen themselves, will have
to be obtained in the same manner. An appropriation for two light
houses ought probably to be not less than twenty thousand dollars.
I remain with respect your most obt Serv"
Wm. H CRAWFORD
HONB" THO". NEWTON C C of Commerce
[Addressed] The Honb" Thomas Newton Chairman of the Com-
mittee of Commerce House of Representatives Treasury Department
[Endorsed] Light House on the Florida Coast
[Enclosure]
Memorandum by John W. Simonton *
[December 7, 1821]
Key West is a small Island immediately on the edge of the Florida
Stream, situated in Lat. [blank] Seventy five miles north by west from
Havanna & about 85 miles from Matanzas, and quite contiguous to
the most of the out ports on the north side of Cuba—say—Bay of
Honda, Cabannas, Mariel, St. John de los Remedions, Arraco &c. &c
which are all places of considerable trade and depend almost entirely
upon Havanna for their supplies—It has an uncommon large and safe
* A Representative in Congress from Virginia.
* Enclosed in covering letter of Jan. 13, 1822, from Thomas Mendenhall to
Cesar A. Rodney, both being enclosures in a letter from Rodney to the Secretary
of the Treasury, undated.



412 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
harbour, where men of war with any draft of water may enter and lay
with safety. It has two never failing Springs of water, one of which
is quite convenient to the harbour, and wood in great abundance—
An establishment at this Island would be of great importance to the
Government, as well as to the Merchants of the United States.
As a harbour and rendezvous for our vessels of war it being one of
the most commanding places on the whole coast of Florida.
The revenue that would arise from the importations of Sugar,
Coffee &c. the productions of the Island of Cuba, as well as from other
places in the Bay of Mexico, the distance being so short that an
immense deal of property would be sent there as well as Specie in
Wessels which seldom go now from the Coast of Cuba and receive in
payment there of the productions of the United States, which trade
would be of great advantage to the american commerce. It would be
an excellent Harbour for our Merchants vessels to touch at bound to
and from the Bay of Mexico to the Atlantic States in cases of distress
which too frequently happen when they have no other place to touch
at except a port in the Iland of Cuba where they are subjected to
heavy expenses—
It is the only eligible situation for a depot for wrecked property on
the whole coast of Florida, it being about midway between the dry
Tortugas and Cape Florida. We are at this time wholly dependant
on the wreckers of New Providence for the protection of our property
in case of Shipwreck, and when that occurs it is carried to New
Providence, which affords a living to more than 500 persons, and
employs 50 or 60 vessels and produces a large revenue to the Govern-
ment and a great pecuniary benefit to the merchants of that place,
because a salvage is generally allowed of from 50 c 75 pr. Cent.
If this place was made a Port of Entry it would in all probability
become a place of depot for the productions of other Countries par-
ticularly that of Great Britain and France, as it may be termed a key
for the whole of the Bay of Mexico and the north side of the Island of
Cuba.--
Arrangements are now making and in the event of this place being
made a Port of Entry ware houses will immediately be erected under
the directions of merchants regularly established there
(signed) J. W. SIMONTON
Havanna Decem" 7" 1821.
[Endorsed] Havanna Dec: 7th 1821 J: W: Simonton relative to an
island near East Florida, by the name of Key West—



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 413
COMMISSION OF GEORGE WALTON AS SECRETARY
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[April 25, 1822)
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity, Diligence and Abilities of GEORGE WALTON of Florida, I
have nominated and by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, do appoint him Secretary in and for the Territory of Florida; *
and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of
that Office, and to Have and to Hold the said office, with all the powers,
privileges and emoluments to the same of right appertaining unto
him the said GEORGE WALTON for the term of four years from the
day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for
the time being should be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission.*
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty fifth day of April A.D. 1822; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Sixth.”
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON 40 AS UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[April 25, 1822]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity Ability and Learning of ALEXANDER HAMILTON of New
* Nominated Apr. 15, 1822, renominated Apr. 17, and confirmed Apr. 25
(Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 293, 295, 297). In the first instance Walton was
nominated Secretary of “the Floridas,” an error for “Florida Territory.” He
accepted the appointment on June 16, 1822 (post, p. 456). His first salary payment
as Secretary of Florida Territory was in the sum of $701.66, covering the quarter
June 20–Dec. 31, 1822 (NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 450). He had
already been paid for his services as Secretary and Acting Governor of W. Fla.,
ending June 20, 1822 (post, p. 456, n.).
* See ante, p. 391, n. -
* W. D. G. Worthington, then acting as Secretary and Acting Governor of E.
Fla., was recommended for this appointment by Rep. Joseph Kent (Md.), Apr. 14,
1822 (NA, SD, Applications).
* The second son of Alexander Hamilton, the late Federalist leader; lawyer,
graduate of Columbia College, and a captain of infantry in the War of 1812. He
died in 1875 (Heitman, Hist. Reg. U. S. Army, 1,492).



414 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
York, I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent
of the Senate, do appoint him Attorney of the United States for that
part of the Territory of Florida, known as East Florida “as well as
Attorney for the same part of said Territory; and do authorize and
empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according
to law; and to Have and to Hold the same together with all the
powers, privileges and emoluments thereto of right appertaining unto
him the said ALEXANDER HAMILTON for the term of four years from
the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States
for the time being should be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty fifth day of April A.D. 1822; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Sixth.*
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
41 Nominated Apr. 15, 1822, renominated Apr. 17, and confirmed Apr. 25
(Senate, Erec. Journal, III, 293, 295, 297). The commission was transmitted
May 23, 1822 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX). A recommendation to the Secretary
of State, Feb. 6, 1822, on Hamilton's behalf, was signed by numerous members
of the delegation in Congress from New York (NA, SD, Applications).
42 A number of applications and recommendations for this post are also found
loc. cit.: Greenbury Gaither, of Nelson County, Ky., was recommended by
W. G. D. Worthington, Dec. 4, 1821; James McKibbin, of S. C., was recommended
to the President by members of the delegation in Congress from that State,
Dec. 24, 1821; George Murray, prosecuting attorney of St. Johns County, Fla.
Terr., was recommended by Reps. Edward B. Jackson and Jared Williams (Va.),
and by Sen. David Holmes (Miss.), Dec. 20, 1821; J. A. Cuthbert, of Milledgeville,
Ga., wrote to the President, Dec. 11, 1821, soliciting the appointment for Alexander
Rembert, of Eatonton, Ga. Another resident of Georgia, William F. Steele, was
the subject of the following recommendations: Rep. Robert R. Reid to the
Secretary of State, Dec. 17, 1821, Sen. Mahlon Dickerson (N. J.) to id., Dec. 20,
1821, Rep. George McDuffie (S. C.) to id., Jan. 17, 1822, enclosing a letter from
J. Camak, of Milledgeville, Ga., Dec. 24, 1821. James Webb, of Ga., B. Elmore,
of S. C., and John H. Chaplin, of Pensacola, Fla., were also candidates.
** On the same date and in the same form a commission as United States attorney
for W. Fla. was signed for Tipton B. Harrison, of Lynchburg, Va. The commission
was transmitted to Harrison on May 22 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX), and acknowl-
edged by him July 28 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). Several recommendations on
Harrison's behalf are found in NA (SD, Applications), principally from members
of the Virginia delegation in Congress. Richard K. Call, of Tenn., aid to Jackson,
and Joseph M. White, of Ky, were also active candidates, each with Congressional
support. Supporting letters are found under the names of the applicants.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 415
JAMES BUCHANAN TO THE PRESIDENT
(NA:SD, Applications:LS)
WASHINGTON 26** April 1822
DEAR SIR, I did myself the honor of calling upon you twice, but
was not so fortunate as to have had an opportunity of seeing you.
I therefore take the liberty of writing to you on the subject which
I had intended to introduce to your notice in conversation.
Mº William Reynolds who now resides at S*Augustine is a native
of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. His relations are highly re-
spectable & he is according to the best information which I have
received a man both of integrity & capacity. He had left Lancaster
before I settled there & therefore I was never personally acquainted
with him, but I have the fullest confidence in the truth of the state-
ment which I have made, from a knowledge of the character which
he has always maintained in the place of his nativity.
M* Reynolds has studied the law & is also well acquainted with the
Spanish language, having resided some years in Spain. He was the
private Secretary of Captain Bell whilst that gentleman acted as the
Secretary of East Florida, & he afterwards discharged the same
duties for Mº Worthington. He was also one of the Secretaries of
the commissioners who examined & seperated the archives & docu-
ments taken from the late governor & notary public of Sº Augustine.
M* Reynolds is anxious to be appointed a member of the Legislative
Council for the territory of Florida. Should you think proper to
confer that appointment upon him, I believe he will discharge its
duties with satisfaction to yourself & to the public.
M* Reynolds would also be desirous of being appointed one of the
Commissioners under the Bill for ascertaining claims & titles to land
within the territory of Florida should it become a law.
Should you think proper to make M* Reynolds a member of the
Legislative Council, it would confer a favour upon your friend with
great respect
JAMES BUCHANAN
THE PRESIDENT
[Addressed] The President
[Endorsed] 26. April 1822. Buchanan James. Recommends Wil-
liam Reynolds as Member of the Legislative Council in Florida.
Mº Blair. Penn Mº Reynolds Legis: council Florid



416 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
COMMISSION OF JOSEPH L. SMITH 4 AS JUDGE
(EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[April 30, 1822]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Wisdom, Uprightness and Learning of JOSEPH L. SMITH of Connect-
icut, I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of
the Senate, do appoint him Judge in and over that part of the Terri-
tory of Florida known as East Florida”; and do authorize and empower
him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to the
Constitution and laws of the United States; and to Have and to
Hold the said office with all the powers, privileges and emoluments
to the same of right appertaining unto him the said JOSEPH L. SMITH
for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof.
* Joseph Lee Smith abandoned a law practice in Connecticut in 1812 to become
an infantry officer in the U. S. Army. He remained in the service after the War
of 1812, becoming a colonel in 1818. But on the reduction of the Army in 1821
he was discharged, and to support a numerous family sought public employment.
See Sen. Lanman, of Conn., to the President containing a general recommenda-
tion, and Thomas Y. Tone, of Brownsville, Conn., to id., Feb. 12, 1822, recom-
mending Smith for appointment as Governor of Florida Territory (NA, SD,
Applications), and Heitman, op. cit., p. 901. He was the father of Edmund
Kirby Smith, Confederate General, whose boyhood was passed in St. Augustine.
** Nominated Apr. 15, 1822, renominated Apr. 17, and confirmed Apr. 30,
1822 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 293, 295, 300). An identical commission of
same date was issued to John Branch, of N. C., who declined the office. In
this connection the Secretary of State inserted the following comment in his
diary: “The President showed me a letter from Mr. Macon, the North Carolina
Senator, to him, requesting him to withdraw the nomination of his friend, the
late Governor, John Branch, to the appointment of Judge in Florida, which he
was sure he will not accept, and regretting that he had recommended him for the
nomination as Governor, which, he says, he should not have done but that he
thought it was the President's own desire. Macon . . . takes it in high dudgeon
that his friend Branch was not nominated as Governor. The President also
read to me the draft of his answer declining to revoke the nomination, and assign-
ing his reasons for nominating Mr. Duval, which were very sufficient” (Memoirs
J. Q. Adams, v, 491). It appears that there was a general objection to Branch
on the part of the North Carolina delegation to his appointment as Judge on the
ground that he had never practiced law. But Adams believed that they were
merely revealing their resentment that Branch had not been appointed Governor
(ibid., p. 494).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 417
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the thirtieth day of April A.D. 1822; and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the Forty Sixth.”
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
WILLIAM SMITH 47 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
SENATE CHAMBER, April 30° 1822.
SIR I have the honor to inclose for your consideration, certain
nominations and the order of reference to the committee on the Judici-
ary. That Committee have instructed me to say, that the law under
which the executive council of Florida is to be appointed, requires the
persons so appointed to be, “Thirteen of the most fit and discreet
persons of the Territory”, and submit, whether in the nominations
they ought not to be stated to be of Florida. This is for your consider-
ation, and if you think proper to present this view to the president who
will informally correct it if he should think fit to do so.”
An early answer is respectfully requested
I have the honor to be Sir your ob" sev"
W* SMITH Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary
THE HON J. Q. ADAMS Secº of State
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO JOHN H. ELTON
[NA:ND,SN Lets. to Officers Ships of War, Bk. 14)
NAVY DEPARTMENT May 2" 1822
CAPT: JoHN H. ELTON U. S. Brig Spark St Mary's G*
SIR, Your letter dated the 9” Ult” was duly received;” & in reply
to that part, which relates to the discrimination of the public lands,
I have to observe, that no means exist at the seat of Government for
designating these with accuracy.”
* A territorial judge's pay commenced with the date of commission. See post,
p. 629. For discussion, see Terr. Papers (Ind.), VII, 23, n.
47 A Senator of the United States from South Carolina.
* See post, p. 422, n.
* NA(ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1822, Bk. 5).
* In reply to an enquiry from the Secretary of the Navy, Apr. 27, 1822 (NA,
ND, SN Exec. Let. Bk. I), the Secretary of the Treasury informed him on the 29th
that the boundaries and limits of the public lands in Florida were known only to
the land commissioners there (NA, ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1823, III).
201867–57–28



418 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
It will, therefore, be incumbent on you to determine the fact from
the best information that it may be in your power to procure; and
in all cases in which you shall have the least reason to believe that the
land on which timber is cutting belongs to the United States, you will
furnish the parties with a Copy of the Act of Congress for the preserva-
tion of the Timber of the U States in Florida,” and caution them at
their peril, to refrain from cutting down, carrying away or otherwise
injuring the public Timber; and in cases in which the evidence is clear
make seizure, & adopt the necessary precaution to prevent the trans-
portation of any Timber already cut down.”—
I am respectfully &" S. T.
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
East Florida Executive Department
ST AUGUSTINE May 3** 1822.
SIR Finding my gubernatorial powers about being wound up here,
I have looked over all my official correspondence & amongst the defi-
ciencies discover the enclosures due at your Department—
No 1—Is a letter of the 14* Sept last from the Spanish Ex-Gover-
nor, Col Coppinger to me about one Ugarte *—
No 2—is my answer of the 17* of Sept” on which Don Joaquim de
Andugua Envoy Extraordinary & minister Plenipotentiary from
Spain—has thought proper to make an unwarrantable & indecorous
reflection in his letter to you of the 22” of Novº last " from Phila-
delphia—as I have just seen in a Pamphlet which has reached me,
called “Documents connected with the President's Message of the
28— of Jan’ 1822.”: No 2–page 155 & 156”—I heretofore transmitted
these very papers to Gen' Jackson with the full defence of my trans-
actions with Col Coppinger, in a Piece of the 14* Decº last, signed,
* Approved Feb. 23, 1822, 3 STAT. 651.
* See post, p. 436.
* Present in English translation. Not here reproduced.
* Present but not printed.
* Original not seen; printed, A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 790.
* Dated variously (Jan. 22 and Jan. 28), the message, together with a report of
the Secretary of State and enclosed papers, was transmitted to the Congress Jan.
29, 1822; it is printed, along with some 135 relevant documents, in Annals, 17
Cong., 1 sess., cols. 2295–2570; A. S. P., For. Rels., IV, 765 et seq.; ibid., Misc., II,
799–913; and H. Doc. 42, 17 Cong., 1 sess. The documents are not chronologically
arranged, but they embody a fair documentation of the problems growing out of
the American occupation.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 419
“An American Civil officer”—On the whole I am conscious of having
done my duty to my government, my Country, & the Civilized World
so far as they may be interested; and confidently leave it to their
judgment & that of Posterity to decide on me—
After N° 2. I supposed Col Coppinger would have seen I could not
interfere—He wrote a long & unimportant reply which is here amongst
the papers of this office, but which I thought not worth copying or
answering—It did not alter the case—
Enclosures A. B. C. relate to the subject alluded to in the last clause
of my letter of the 18 March” respect" the Judiciary of this Province.
I know of nothing further except matters of too trifling detail to
send to you—Yet I feel no disinclination to submit the most minute
as well as the most weighty transactions of my public life here, to the
most rigid scrutiny. I have in every thing done my duty to the best
of my Judgment and ability—I may take occasion in the final close of
my political executive life here; to give a succinct history of events
from the beginning to the end of my administration & I shall feel
proud to obtain by deserving it the approbation of my country—
With distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HONB' J. Q. ADAMS Secy of State
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington–Rec" 25*
[Enclosures]
James G. Forbes to Acting Governor Worthington
S* AUGUSTINE 8* January 1822.
SIR After the archives & Documents had been investigated, under
your Excy" Commission of 1* October & the papers Seperated, I
Communicated your Orders to the Escribano Mº Entralgo to deliver to
Him those taken from his office, which it was deem'd the U S Gov"
did not claim under the Treaty, also I made a Similar offer to M*
Aredondo, the Gen' Attorney of the Ex Governor Col. Coppinger, he
being absent, to deliver those taken from him, which it was thought
proper not to retain, they both declin'd taking them, So they remain
Safe, but Subject to future orders. I made the Offer in writing as one
of the Commissioners, And as Marshall of the U. S. for the Florida's,
agreeably to your written directions
I am very respectfully Yr Excy" Mº Obt Sº
(Sighnd) J G FORBES
HIS EXY W. G. D WORTHINGTON Governor &"
[Endorsed] Col Forbes Certificate about the Archives not returned
No 15.
* Present. Not printed.
*Ante, p. 381.



420 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Edmund Law to Acting Governor Worthington
S* AUGUSTINE Jamy 14, 1822.
SIR Of the archives & documents taken into the American Posses-
sion, under your Commission of the 1* October, from the Spanish
Escrevano, M* Entralgo, part of five Boxes are are retain’d as
Belonging to the United States under a fair Construction of the
Treaty, and the remainder of the five Boxes, are determin’d by the
Commissioners to be returnd to M Entralgo— From the Spanish
Ex Govenor, Col. Coppinger part of Six boxes are retain'd, under the
above Construction, and the remainder of the Six Boxes, are de-
termin'd, as above to be return'd to Col. Coppinger, Both Co'Cop-
pinger & M Entralgo I learn, decline, taking those Boxes, offer'd to
be return’d—I would therefore advise, some final disposition, to be
made of them, either by yourself or by the Gen' Goverment, As they
may be Subject to casualties, while in our possession,
To those papers retain'd, Americans, Spaniards & all persons in-
terested, have daily access; Those determin'd to be return'd have
remain’d nail’d up & no one Suffer'd to handle or inspect them
Yours very respectfully
(Signed) EDMUND LAW Alcalde of Sº Augustine
W. G. D WORTHINGTON Secretary & Acting Gov"
[Endorsed] Sº Augustine Jan 14, 1822 Edmund Law Alcalde
about the Archives retained N° 16.
Decree of Acting Governor Worthington
[March 14, 1822)
BY W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Secretary and Acting Governor of the
Province of East Florida
Whereas, the benefits resulting to the Citizens and Inhabitants of
this Province since its Cession to the United States, from the frequency
of the sittings of the Court of the County of Sº John's as directed in
Gen' Jacksons Ordinances N° 4 and 5 appearing to me, now, to have
ceased to ensue: and that it would be more for the ease, tranquility
and happiness of the Province, that the monthly Terms be abolished,
and that there should in future be only Semi-annual Sessions—There-
fore, and in Virtue of the Authority vested in me by the President of
the U. States—
I do decree—That the 5* Section of the 4* Ordinance and the
8* Section of the 5* Ordinance be and the same are hereby repealed,
as they relate to the Quarterly and Monthly meetings of said Court—
And that henceforth, said Court, unless otherwise provided for by
Congress, shall hold two Courts, one on the first monday of July–
the other on the first monday of January, annually—With the power



F L OR I D A T E R RITO R Y 421
to hold such adjourned Courts as may at any time be deemed necessary
and proper”
Given at S*Augustine this 14* day of March 1822–
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Governor
[Endorsed] A. with Mº Worthington's Letter of 3 May 1822.
Acting Governor Worthington to the Court of St. Johns County
Executive Department East Florida
ST. AUGUSTINE March 16th 1822
Some remarks on the question—
Whether or not in all Civil Cases originating in the County of Sº
John's, in the province of East Florida, when the matter in con-
troversy shall exceed Twenty Dollars $20, either party can foarce
the other into a Trial by Jury—at this time 7–I suspect not.
1* From the words of the 3* Section of the 4* Ordinance—that
the Judicial proceedings in All Civil Cases, shall be according to the
existing Laws (of the Spanish Province of E. Florida), or the Laws
of Spain—To neither of which has the Trial by Jury been ever
known—even the Constitution of the Cortes confines the Right of
Trial by Jury to Criminal Cases—and the Laws of Spain and of the
Indies recognize no such Tribunal.
2” By the 30 Section of the 3" article of the Constitution of the
U. States—The Right of Trial by Jury is limited to matters of Crime
and even then, the crimes in cases of Impeachment are excepted—So
that under the Constitution the Trial by Jury in Civil Cases cannot
be claimed as a right—except as therein specified—
3" By the 7” Article of the Amendments to the Constitution, the
Right of Trial by Jury when the value in controversy exceeds $20–is
confined to suits at common law—But the Civil Cases in the Court
of the County of Sº Johns are not according to the course of common
law. The Criminal cases are expressly so—and the law maxim applies
precisly here—that “expressio unius est exclusio alterius” So that
to Claim the Trial by Jury under the Amended article—The “existing
Laws and Laws of Spain” must give way to the common law—Is
this the moment for such an innovation? From all which it follows
that at this Time while the cases are pending wherein the question
has arisen so—I am of opinion that neither an American nor a Spaniard
has a right to force his adversary in a suit in a Civil Case, to a Trial
before a Jury—and even if I were to see the expediency and the
policy to alter this ordinance in this important respect—My decree
could not have an ex-Post facto operation—That would be uncon-
stitutional—And altho’ no man is a more enthusiastic advocate of
* This decree was cancelled two days later on the advice of the presiding judge
and his four associates (enclosure B, not here reproduced).



422 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
the Trial by Jury than I am yet viewing the policy and the law of
Gen' Jackson and my peculiar situation as I do, I think it neither
expedient nor proper at this time to alter his ordinance in this par-
ticular.—Upon the subject of Jurisdiction, whether or not the Court
have any on cases not originating in the County of S" Johns—I will
decline giving an opinion, as the second section of the 4” ordinance"
clothes me with appellate powers and I should thus in a manner, be
prejudicating a case which might come before me on this very point—
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary and Acting Governor of the province of East Florida
To THE HONB" THE Court of the County of St Johns.
[Endorsed] C. with Mº Worthington's letter of 3 May 1822.
COMMISSION OF MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE
COUNCIL 61
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 4, 1822)
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of an act of Congress passed on the
thirtieth day of March last, entitled “An Act for the establishment of
a territorial government in Florida,” “” and reposing special Trust and
Confidence in the Integrity and Abilities of J. C. BRONAUGH, HENRY
M. BRACKENRIDGE,” RICHARD CALL, EDGAR MACON, EDMUND LAW,
* See post, p. 437.
* The persons listed in this commission were nominated to the Senate Apr. 28,
1822 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 298). Sen. William Smith, chairman of the Com-
mittee on Judiciary, wrote to the Secretary of State, Apr. 30, 1822 enquiring,
whether the message should not state the persons to be residents of the Territory
in accordance with the law (sec. 5 of the act of Mar. 30, 1822, ante, p. 391) and
suggesting presentation of the question to the President (ante, p. 417). A message
of the President of May 4 withdrew the nominations of Apr. 28 and nominated
the same persons with the statement that most of them were citizens of the Terri-
tory and the others were moving there with the intention of being present by the
time the Council met (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 303). Confirmation of the nomi-
nations occurred on May 4 (ibid.). A copy of the commission was sent on May 14
to Edmund Law at St. Augustine (NA, SD, Dom. Lets. XIX) with the request
that he inform the other members of the council living in E. Fla. and stating that
the original commission had been sent to Gov. DuVal at Pensacola. No copy of
the letter to DuVal has been found; he was presumably requested to inform the
members of the council living in W. Fla. See post, p. 470.
* Ante, p. 389.
* Following his appointment as judge of W. Fla. (post, p. 451), Brackenridge
resigned the above appointment (post, p. 489). See also post, p. 470.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 423
WILLIAM M. GIBSON, JOSEPH M. HERNANDEZ,” JoHN MILLER,
WILLIAM REYNOLDS, THOMAS LYTLE, BERNARDO SIGUI, JAMES R.
HANHAM, and JOSEPH M. WHITE, I have nominated and by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, appointed
them and every of them Members of the Legislative Council of the
said Territory; and do authorize and empower them and every of them
to execute and fulfil the duties of their said offices according to law;
and to Have and to Hold the same with all the rights thereunto legally
appertaining for the term of one year from the day of the date hereof,
unless the President of the United States for the time being should
be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission as to all or any of the
said persons.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United
L.S. States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at the
City of Washington the fourth day of May A.D. 1822; and
of the Independence of the United States, the Forty Sixth.”
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
* A letter from Hernandez to the President, May 20, 1822, states that because
of ill health and the situation of his family he was obliged to resign (NA, SD,
Applications). Family circumstances compelled Segui to decline acceptance of
the appointment, May 24, 1822 (loc. cit.). Greenberry Gaither and George
Murray were appointed on June 5, 1822, to replace them (NA, SD, Temp. Comms.,
Pres.), and their commissions were sent to Gov. DuVal on June 12 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets., XIX). See post, pp. 448, 449, 489.
* In NA(SD, Applications) are recommendations for appointments to the
Legislative Council in addition to those recommended by DuVal on Apr. 16 (ante
p.406). Thomas I. Wyche, a member of the city council of Pensacola, was recom-
mended to the Secretary of State by William Barnette, of the “Oaks” near Pensa-
cola, Mar. 1, 1822, and by Rep. Mark Alexander (Va.) to the President, Mar. 30.
Rep. James Blair (S.C.) presented to the President, Apr. 22, 1822, an extract of a
letter from John Geddes, former governor of South Carolina, recommending John
B. Strong, a lawyer of E. Fla., who had formerly practiced law in New York.
William Reynolds, of St. Augustine, Fla., formerly of Lancaster County, Pa., was
recommended to the President by Rep. James Buchanan (Pa.), ante, p. 415. Act.
Gov. Worthington wrote to the Secretary of State, Mar. 26, 1822, recommending
the following persons: Francis Fatio, Farquhar Bethune, Thomas H. Penn, James
G. Forbes, George Murray, Benjamin Chaires, George Kingsley, James Darley,
G. W. Perpall, Martin Hernandez, and Bartholme Castro, as qualified nominees
from whom a selection could be made (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). An earlier letter
from Worthington to the President, Mar. 8, 1822, on behalf of George Murray, is
in LC(Monroe Papers, Vol. 31).
* Cf. post, p. 640.



424 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
AN ACT FOR ASCERTAINING CLAIMS AND TITLES TO
LAND
[NA:SD, Original Statutes: DS 7]
[May 8, 1822)
An Act for ascertaining claims and titles to land within the territory of
Florida.08
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That for the purpose of
ascertaining the claims and titles to lands within the territory of
Florida as acquired by the treaty of the twenty-second of February,
one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, there shall be appointed,
by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, three commissioners, who shall receive as
compensation for the duties enjoined by the provisions of this act,
two thousand dollars each, to be paid quarterly from the treasury;
who shall open an office for the adjudication of claims at Pensacola,
in the territory of West Florida, and St. Augustine in East Florida,
under the rules, regulations, and conditions hereinafter prescribed.”
*7 Printed also in 3 STAT. 709–718, with some forty-five changes in punctuation
as well as a few changes in wording.
* This measure originated in the Senate. On Dec. 31, 1821, a motion was
introduced to instruct the Committee on Public Lands to consider the propriety
of reporting a bill for the adjustment of land claims in East and West Florida,
which was agreed to on Jan. 2, 1822. A bill to that end was introduced on
Mar. 1 which passed through the usual readings, was discussed in Committee of
the Whole for several days and several times amended, and finally passed by that
body on Apr. 17, 1822, and sent to the House for the latter's concurrence. The
House passed the bill, with the addition of amendments, and returned it to its
place of origin on May 7. The Senate concurred in the House amendments on
May 8, and the measure was approved by the President on the same date (Senate
Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 47, 49, 160, 163, 249, 254, 264, 266, 277,281, 374,
375, 379; House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 469, 470, 494, 595). A similar
bill had been introduced in the House on Mar. 18, but no action was taken
thereon beyond the second reading and committment (ibid., p. 362). No debate
was reported in Annals of Congress.
The title in the original bill read: “An Act for ascertaining claims and titles
to land within the territories of East and West Florida.” It was amended in
the House on third reading (endorsement on one of the two printed bills).
There are present four different versions of the original bill (S. 62) in NA (SF
17 Cong., 1 sess.): the original hand-written draft by Sen. John H. Eaton, which
was introduced on Mar. 1, two printed copies under the same date containing
numerous emendations, and the engrossed Senate copy as passed by that body
and transmitted to the House of Representatives for concurrence. This fourth
version enables us to identify the origin of the various amendments mentioned
above. Brackets in the above text are editorial.
* This section was amended by an act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 Stat. 754–756,)
to the effect that the commissioners provided in the above act should confine
their duties to “that portion of the territory, heretofore known as West Florida,”



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 425
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of said
commissioners to appoint a suitable and well qualified secretary, who
shall record in a well bound book all and every their acts and proceed-
ings, the claims admitted, with those rejected, and the reason of
their [admission or "] rejection. He shall receive as a compensation
for his services one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, to be
paid quarterly from the treasury. He shall be acquainted with the
Spanish language; and before entering on a discharge of the duties
of his office shall take and subscribe an oath before some authority
competent to administer it, that he will well and truly and faithfully
[discharge the duties assigned him, and "] translate all papers that
may be required of him by the commissioners. —
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That said commissioners, ſprevi-
ously to entering on a discharge of the duties assigned them, shall,
before the judge of the territorial court, at Pensacola, or some other
authority in his absence, competent to administer it, take an oath
faithfully to discharge the duties of their offices, and shall ”] commence
and hold their sessions on or before the first Monday of July next, at
Pensacola, and on the first Monday of January thereafter, at St.
Augustine, for the ascertaining and determining of all claims to land
within said territories; notice of which shall be given by said com-
missioners, in some newspaper printed at each place, or if there be no
newspaper, at the most public places in said cities respectively, of the
time at which their sessions will commence, requiring all persons to
bring forward their claims, with evidence necessary to support them.
The session at St. Augustine shall terminate on the thirtieth of June,”
one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, when said commis-
sioners shall forward to the secretary of the treasury, to be submitted
to Congress, a detail of all they have done, [and deliver over to the
surveyor all the archives, documents, and papers that may be in their
possession.”—]
SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That every person, or the heirs or
representatives of such persons, claiming title to lands under any
[patent") grant, concession, or order of Survey, dated previous to the
twenty-fourth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
eighteen, [which were valid under the Spanish government, or by the
and that the President was authorized to appoint another board of land commis-
sioners for East Florida, with the same duties and the same office establishment
as appertained to the board in West Florida.
* A House amendment. All the brackets in this document are editorial.
71 Do. -
12A Senate amendment.
*A substitution for May, which appears in the original bill.
"A Senate amendment; the original version was “Spanish.”
75 Do. -



426 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
law of nations,”] and which are not rejected by the treaty ceding the
territory of East and West Florida, to the United States, shall file
before the commissioners his, her, or their claims, setting forth, par-
ticularly, its situation and boundaries, if to be ascertained, with the
deraignment of title, where they are not the grantees or original
claimants; which shall be recorded by the secretary, and, who for his
services, shall be entitled to demand [from the claimants”) ten cents
for each hundred words contained in said papers so recorded; ſhe shall
be also entitled to twenty-five cents for each subpoena issued: *]
Provided, That if the amount so received shall exceed one thousand
two hundred and fifty dollars” which is hereby declared the com-
pensation for his services, the excess shall be reported to the commis-
sioners, and be subject to their disposition, and said commissioners
shall proceed to examine and determine on the validity of said patents,
grants, concessions, and orders of survey, ſagreeably to the laws and
ordinances heretofore existing of the governments making the grants
respectively, having due regard in all Spanish claims”) to the con-
ditions and stipulations contained in the eighth article of a treaty
concluded at Washington between his Catholic Majesty and the
United States, on the twenty second of February, one thousand eight
hundred and nineteen: but any claim not filed previous to the thirty
first day of May,” one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three,
shall be deemed and held to be void, and of none effect: Provided
nevertheless, and be it further enacted, That in all claims submitted
to the decision of the commissioners, where the same land, or any part
thereof, is claimed by titles emanating both from the British and
Spanish governments, the commissioners shall not decide the same,
but shall report all such cases, with an abstract of the evidence to the
Secretary of the treasury.-
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That the commissioners shall have
power to enquire into the justice and validity of the claims filed with
them, and shall be, and are hereby, authorized to administer oaths,
to compel the attendance of witnesses [by sub poenas issued by the
secretary *,) and the adduction of such testimony as may be wanted;
they shall have access to all papers and records of a public nature
relative to any land titles within said provinces, and to make tran-
scripts thereof. They shall examine into claims arising under patents,
grants, concessions, and orders of survey, where the survey has been
7" A House amendment.
77 Do.
78 A Senate amendment.
” “One thousand dollars” appears in the original bill.
* A Senate amendment.
* A substitution for April, which appears in the original bill.
* A Senate amendment.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R. Y 427
actually made, previous to the twenty-fourth January, one thousand
eight hundred and eighteen, whether they are founded upon conditions,
and how far those conditions have been complied with, [and if derived
from the British government, how far they have been considered valid
under the Spanish government; *) and, if satisfied that said claims be
correct [and valid,” shall give confirmation to them: [Provided, That
such confirmation shall only operate as a release of any interest which
the United States may have, and shall not be considered as affecting
the rights of third persons:*] And provided, That they shall not have
power to confirm any claim or part thereof, where the amount
claimed is undefined in quantity, or shall exceed one thousand acres;
but in all such cases, shall report the testimony, with their opinions to
the secretary of the treasury, to be laid before Congress for their
determination. Every witness attending under any process from the
commissioners shall be allowed one dollar a day, and one dollar for
every twenty miles travel, to be paid by the party summoning him.
[Provided nevertheless, That the Commissioners shall not act on, or
take into consideration any British grant, patent, warrant, or order
of Survey, but those which are bona fide claimed and owned by citizens
of the United States, and which have never been compensated for
by the British government.”—)
SEC 6.” And be it further enacted, That there shall be appointed,
by the President of the United States, by and with the advise and
consent of the Senate, a surveyor who shall possess the power and
authority, and receive the same salary as by law appertains to the
surveyor south of the State of Tennessee; but his duties shall not
commence until the Commissioners shall have examined and decided
upon the claims in West Florida, who shall, thereupon, furnish the
surveyor with a list of those admitted, and he shall, thereupon, proceed
to survey the country, taking care to have surveyed and marked, and
laid down upon a general plan, to be kept in his office, the metes and
bounds of the claims so admitted; causing the same to be surveyed
at the expense of the claimants, the price whereof shall be the same as
is paid for surveying the public lands; but no surveyor shall charge
for any line except such as may be actually run, nor for any line not
necessary to be run. He shall appoint a suitable number of deputies,
83 Do.
* A House amendment.
* A Senate amendment.
* A Senate amendment.
* This is section 8 of the original bill, and represents a Senate addition thereto.
Section 6 of the initial measure defined the duties of the district attorneys in
relation to appeals from the decisions of the land commissioners, which was
expunged by the House (it was subsequently inserted as section 4 of act approved
Mar. 3, 1823), as was also section 7 which would have required the submission to
Congress of lists of all persons residing in Florida on the date of its cession to the
United States.



428 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
and shall fix and determine their fees: Provided that the whole cost
of surveying shall not exceed four dollars a mile: And Provided, also,
That none other than township lines shall be run where the land is
deemed unfit for cultivation. Said surveyor shall reside at such place
as the President of the United States may direct, and shall keep his
office there; and may charge the following fees to wit: for recording
the plat and surveys of private claims made by any of his deputies,
twenty five cents for each mile contained in the boundary of such
survey; and twenty-five cents for any copy certified from the books
of his office.—
PHILIP P. BARBOUR
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN GAILLARD
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
WASHINGTON May 8th 1822
Approved JAMES MONROE
I certify that this act did originate in the Senate Attest CHARLES
CUTTS Secy
COMMISSION OF LAND COMMISSIONERS
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 8, 1822)
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of An Act of Congress passed on the
Eighth day of the present month, entitled “An Act for ascertaining
claims and titles to land within the Territories of Florida,”* and re-
posing special Trust and Confidence in the Integrity, Ability and Dili-
gence of JAMES P. PRESTON,” SAMUEL R. OVERTON” and NATHANIEL
* 3 STAT. 709–718. Under this law the commissioners were to open offices
at Pensacola and St. Augustine where claims were to be filed and sessions held
for the adjudication of claims. The commissioners had the power to confirm
claims, except those of indefinite quantity or those exceeding 1,000 acres, which
were to be acted upon by Congress.
* Governor of Virginia, 1816–1819. Preston never actually served. See post,
p. 514, n.
* Samuel R. Overton, Nashville, Tenn., a nephew of Judge John Overton, was
recommended to the President, May 8, 1822, by Sen. John H. Eaton (Tenn.),
Sen. Thomas H. Williams (Miss.), Sen David Holmes (Miss.), Sen Ninian Ed-
wards (Ill.), and Sen. John Williams, of Tenn.(NA, SD, Applications). Another
undated recommendation to the President (loc. cit.) bears, in addition to the
signatures of Senators Holmes, Eaton, John Williams, and Edwards, those of
Sen. Henry Johnson (La.), Sen. Richard M. Johnson (Ky.), and Rep. John Rhea
(Tenn.).



FLO RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 429
A. WARE,” I have nominated and by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate appointed them and each of them Commissioners for
the purposes expressed in the said act, with all the powers, privileges
and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Eighth day of May A.D. 1822; and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the Forty Sixth.”
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
John QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF GAD HUMPHREYS 92 AS INDIAN AGENT 93
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 8, 1822)
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity, Diligence and Discretion of GAD HUMPHREYS of New York,
I have nominated and by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, do appoint him Agent of the Indian tribes, within the limits
* Some of the same Senators, including Holmes, Thomas H. Williams, and
Eaton, and also Sen. John W. Walker (Ala.), Sen. Nicholas Ware (Ga.), and
Rep. Christopher Rankin (Miss.), and on Apr. 21, 1822, Rep. George McDuffie
(S. C.) wrote to the President in favor of Ware, enclosing recommendations
which have not been found (loc. cit.). This was the same Nathaniel A. Ware
who had served as Secretary of Mississippi Territory, 1815–1817 (Dict. Amer.
Biog., xix, 451; Terr. Papers, Miss., VI, index; ibid., Ala.,xviii, index).
** The persons named in this commission were nominated and confirmed May 8,
1822 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 310). They were notified of their appointments
on May 24, and on the same day a packet containing their commissions was
sent to Gov. DuVal (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX). See post, p. 484.
*ib A number of other persons were candidates for the position of land com-
missioner: John M. Berrien (Ga.), George J. Brown (Md.), Greenbury Gaither
(St. Augustine, Fla.), Arthur P. Hayne (S. C.), David Shannon, presiding justice,
Escambia County (Fla.) Court, and William Reynolds (St. Augustine). Sup-
porting letters, many of which were from members of Congress, for each of these
persons are found under the respective names of the candidates (NA, SD, Appli-
cations).
* After thirteen years service in the U. S. Army as captain and major, succes-
sively, Humphreys had been honorably discharged on the reduction of the Army
in 1821 (Heitman, op. cit., p. 555).
* This appointment was authorized by an act approved May 6, 1822 (3 STAT.
682-683). See post, p. 452.



430 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
of East and West Florida; * and do authorize and empower him to
execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law; and to
Have and to Hold the said office, with all the rights and emoluments
thereunto legally appertaining unto him the said GAD HUMPHREYS,
during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time
being.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Eighth day of May A.D. 1822; and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the Forty Sixth.*
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
JOHN H. ELTON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Masters Commandant, 1822:LS)
U. S. Brig Spark AT SEA May 16** 1822
SIR. I have the honor to communicate to you that I have received
my Boat the officers and Men from up the River Sº John's after an
absence of nearly a Month, they are in tolerable health. By the en-
closed abstract from M James Hutton who accompanied in the Boat,
you can perceive that the number of wood Cutters or depredations
committed have been magnified—Col. Eustis who was on board this
Vessel yesterday morning and the Night previous off Augustine has
heard of none others. I have however left Gun Vessel N° 158, or
Schooner Revenge, to remain and perform the Duty assigned me!”
(N* 168) never having reported: Lieut Commd." Hammersley has gone
some distance up and will assist Mº Hutton in any further search of
inspection—I shall await between the Sº Johns and Sº Mary's for to-
morrows Mail (Weekly) and if nothing intervenes shall prosecute my
original cruize as directed—On the Musquito Shore or River, there
are three or four Schooners loaded with Live Oak, Cut for the U.S. by
* Nominated May 7, 1822, and confirmed May 8 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III,
307, 310).
* Capt. John R. Bell had been applicant for this appointment and in a letter
of May 26 to the Secretary of War (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 419), expressed
his disappointment at not receiving it. See post, p. 450. There were also other
applicants: Nathaniel Greene Cleary, of Charleston, S. C., applied to the Presi-
dent, Apr. 14, 1821, and George S. Brown, of Baltimore, Md., was recommended
on Nov. 3, 1821, by John Mercer, of that place (NA, SD, Applications).
* Gun Boat No. 158 was prevented from entering the river by heavy seas and
cruised along the coast for a time (Thomas S. Hamersley to Joseph Wragg,
July 16, 1822, NA, ND, SN, Misc. Lets. Recd., 1822, Bk. 4).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 431
Mº Sands, one of the Contractors or agents, they buy the Wood of
those who do actually own or pretend to titles, as they are bound to
the different Navy Yards, and as it is a dangerous Coast, I think it un-
necessary to enquire further myself"
I have the Honor to be very Respectfully Yº Obd" Hblº Serv"
JNo H. ELTON U. S. N.
To THE HONBº SMITH THOMPSON Secretary of the Navy
[Addressed] To the Honorable Smith Thompson Secretary U. S.
Navy Washington City. [Postmarked] Chals" SC May 21 free
[Endorsed] U. S. Brig Spark May 16. 1822 Capt. J. H. Elton
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA: SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x: LS)
Executive Department East Florida
S* AUGUSTINE May 21* 1822.
SIR-Under Gen' Jackson's Ordinance N° 3 only 40—persons have
been naturalized by the Mayor as you will see by the particular return
herewith enclosed Marked A *—
The case of Moses Elias Levy is the only one which is special and
not strictly within the letter of the Ordinance it is marked B.”—
I issued a Public Notice on the subject Marked C.—determined,
that, altho' the cost to the person Naturalized was only One Dollar to
the Secretary, which was paid my private Secretary, they should see
my opinion before they incurred that sum—I am of opinion that,
a Treaty cannot Naturalize Aliens, a portion no powers derived
under it—But the only mode is under the Constitution, prescribed by
Congress—A Treaty may be by the President and Senate alone—It
requires a uniform mode, by the Congress—However I looked on it
as my duty to carry the Ordinance into effect—And I think it was well
enough as it furnishes at least evidence of the Intention &c.—I send
one of my forms of Naturalization Marked D —
* See post, p. 436.
* Infra.
* A petition; present but not here reproduced. See Leon Huhner, “Moses
Elias Levy, an Early Florida Pioneer and Father of Florida's First Senator,”
Fla. Hist. Quar, XIX Apr. 1941), 319–345. A letter from Levy to Worthington,
Mar. 3, 1822, concerning the land he had obtained from the Spanish Government,
with documents relating to his citizenship, is in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x).
Other documents relative to Levy are printed in House Rept. 10, 27 Cong., 1 sess.,
and in H. Doc. 15, 27 Cong., 3 sess.
1 Present.



432 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
As I wrote you heretofore when the County Court laid Taxes—I
suspended their collection as also of the City Council—And E * is an
order from the same Court, respecting the Public Road [MS. torn)
modification—[MS. torn] winter one Birch a fugitive from Justice in
Georgia—and kept him till he was delivered over to the order of Gov-
ernor Clarke—The papers are voluminous and therefore I shall not
send them on—It was thought to have been carried through, with no
little credit—
Nothing further occurs to me at present—
With distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary and Acting Governor of East Florida
THE HONB" J. Q. ADAMS Secº of State Washington
[Addressed] The Honble J. Quincy Adams Secy of State Washington
[Endorsed] W. G. D. Worthington—Recd 8th June
[Enclosures]
Notice Relative to Naturalization in Florida
[November 24, 1821]
Notice
All persons wishing to avail themselves of the benefit of Gen.
Jacksons 3" Ordinance, by obtaining Certificates of Citizenship as
therein prescribed, are informed that such Certificates, may be had
on producing the requisite proofs, at the Public Office of the Secretary
and Acting Governor of this province, at the Old Gov". House on
Constitution Square
Those who feel so disposed may, possibly, by complying with the
Ordinance before the 17" of July next, avoid doubts which may arise
respecting any of their rights &c.—It is thought not unnecessary to
suggest that the following classes of persons may perhaps more im-
mediately derive advantages from it
1* All native Spaniards who wish to become American Citizens
2" All English or other Foreign Subjects or citizens who may have
been in the Floridas on or before the 17* July 1821
3" All American Citizens who resided here, during the English or
Spanish occupation and possession of the province and denationalized
themselves by becoming English or Spanish Subjects
The Secretary and Acting Governor gives no Constitutional or
legal opinion on the power or effect of this mode of Naturalization—
Tho', he hesitates not, to say that no person can hold any office of
Honor Profit or Trust under the Gov" of Florida without first taking
2 Present. It concerns work on the public roads.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 433
the oath to support the Constitution of the U. S. He only orders me
to inform such inhabitants of Oriental Florida, as may wish to avail
themselves of the ordinance, that proper blanks are duly prepared
and may be had by applying to me at his office
By order of W. G. D. Worthington SecY & Acting Gov' of East
Florida.
WILLIAM REYNOLDS Private Secretary
St Augustine Novº 24* 1821
[Endorsed] Notice about Naturalization C. Notice on Naturaliza-
tion with Mº Worthington's of 21 May 1822.
301867–57—29



List of Persons who have taken the oath of Naturalization before J. G. Forbes *
[May 20, 1822]
August 25th
--
28
1
s
t
Francis J. Fatio
Patrick Lynch
George Levy
Lewis Solomon
John Colpoy
Francis Brady
Levy Mathias Rodenburg
Andrew de Rooden
Richard Murray
Edward Mooney
William Levingston
John H. Shortis
James Hall
Farquhar Bethune
Charles Seton
Jean Augustin Peniers
James Martinelly
John Floyd
Peter Poirier
Isaac Hendrecks
William Robertson
Antelme Gay
Ezekiel Hudnall
Andrew Burgevin
John Marshall
Joseph Montoro
Martin Lopez
John Jones
James Darley
James Ormond
Philip Weactman
Moses Elias Levy 4
Gentleman
Engineer
Planter
Watchmaker
Farmer
Grocer
Do
Do
Physician
Trader
Mariner
Butcher
Planter
Merchant
Do
Lawyer
Mariner
Mail carrier
Merchant
Planter
Planſter]
Merchant
Planter
Surveyor
Merchant
Do
Mariner
Farmer
Planter
Do
Physician
Planter
Ireland
London
Do
Ireland
Do
Amsterdam
Do
Ireland
Do
Virginia
Ireland
New Hampshire
Pensacola
New York
St Juliers, France
St Augustine
St Mary's River
Nantes, France
So Carolina
[Glasglow
Burgundy, France
Virginia
Sully France
Walton, England
Andalusia in Vuetta Lower Spain
Florida
Hanover County, Va.
Yorkshire Gºt B.
Great Britain
Meins Rhine
Morocco
King of Spain
King of Great Britain
Do Do
Do Do
Do Do
Do
King of Holland
Do
King of Great Britain
Do
King of Spain
King of Grt Britain
King of Spain
Do
Do
King of France
King of Spain
Do
King of France
Do
King of Gt Britain
King of Spain
Do
Do
King of Gt Britain
King of Spain
Do
Do
King of Gº Britain
Do
Duke of Meins
King of Denmark
Single
Hø of Family
Do
Single
Do
Hd of Family
Single
Hd of Family
Single
Hd of Family
Do
Hd of Family
Do
Single
Hd of Family
Do
Single
Hd of Family
Single
Do
Do
Hä of Family
Do
:
:
1
:
:
:



§
Mar 5 83 Francis Philip Fatio 61 || Planter London King of Spain
- 7 34 Yucur Cordona 31 | Seaman Gallicia Do
-- 35 Temple Pent 28 Navigator Nassau N. P. King of G* Britain
“ 13 36 Andrew Branning 46 || Planter Salsbury N. C. King of Spain
-- -- 37 F. R Sanchez 31 Do St Augustine (E. F) Do
“ 14 38 || J. M. Bowden 81 Do St John's (E. F) Do
-- -- 39 Lewis Gardner 83 || Cooper N. Carolina Do
“ 20 40 Henry Wellman 21 | Navigator Germany King of G* Britain
Ha of Family
Single
Ha of Family
:
1
:
7
:
Returned to me the 20 May 1822 by J. G. Forbes Mayor of Sº Augustine East Florida
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON Secretary &c
[Endorsed] A. with Mr Worthington's of 21 May 1822.
*M* Levy declares himself to have been an Inhabitant of this Province at the time stated as appears by his memorial to Govt Worthington annexed to the Certificate and
* Printed also in House Report 10, 27 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 14–15.
making part of the return—[interlineation on the MS.]



436 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO
ARCHIBALD CLARK
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors:C)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT 22” May 1822.
SIR, The Act defining the Collection Districts which shall be
organized in the Floridas, having attached a part of that territory to
the District of Sº Marys. has given to the president the power of
establishing such ports of Delivery in the said district as the public
interest may require"—
The information possessed by this Department is not Sufficiently
defined to enable the President to determine wether it is necessary &
proper to exercise the power Conferred by the provisions of the Act at
this time—
I therefore Request that you will Communicate without delay, such
information as you may possess upon this subject, and that if, in
your opinion it is necessary to establish a port of delivery in the
District, you will Communicate to this Department the name &
Description of the port, which is recommended to be established—
I Remain with Respect Your Most Ob" Serv"
W* H. CRAWFORD. Secty of the Treasy
A CLARK. Esq.r Coll" of the Customs of the Port. of Sº Marys: Geo.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO
ARCHIBALD CLARK
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors:C)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT 22” May. 1822.
SIR. The Commander of the Cutter on the Savannah Station has
reported, that he has detained a Wessel Laden with lumber unlawfully
Cut from the Public Lands in East Florida and Sent her to Amelia
Island: & it is Stated that She is in the Custody of an Inspector of the
Revenue.—
The Case has been reported to the Secretary of the Navy, who it is
presumed will give the necessary directions should however the vessel
be in your Custody. when you receive this Letter. you will Cause the
timber to be Landed & Suffer the Wessel to depart, as no legal procedure
can be instituted against her—
Whatever expense may have been incurred or Shall be incurred in
unlading the Wessel & preserving the Timber, will it is presumed be
paid by the Secretary of the Navy Department, to whom you will
forward an account, of the Same, together with a Statement of the
* Approved May 7, 1822, 3 STAT. 684–685.



FLORI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 437
Quantity & Description of the timber, & wait his orders in Relation to
the Disposition, which is finally, to be made of it."
I Remain with Respect Your Most Obt Servº
W. H. CRAWFORD, Secty of the Treasury
A. CLARK. Esqr. Coll' of the Customs S*Marys—Geo.
FONTAINE MAURY TO ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON
(WEST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 22 May 1822
GEORGE WALTON Esquire Pensacola
SIR, It being desirable to close as early as possible all accounts in
relation to the temporary Government of the Floridas, I am requested
by the Secretary of State to request that your account be transmitted
to this Department at as early a period as may comport with your
convenience 7
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Agt
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
Executive Department East Florida
ST AUGUSTINE May 26* 1822
SIR On the 19* Ulto an appeal under the 2* Section of Gen.'
Jackson's 4* Ordinance,” was brought up and argued before me—
I felt myself bound to hear the case: & to give the tribunal, all the
effect it deserved, I Presided in a Judicial costume & organized the
* See post, p. 451.
* Answered post, p. 481.
*See bibliographical note, ante, p. 134. A contemporary printed copy (official)
of the fourth ordinance is in NA (SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, VII, p. 83). It
is also printed in A. S. P., Misc., II, 906–907. The section in question is as
follows, taken from the contemporary copy: “In each of said counties, and for the
government thereof, there shall be established a court, to be designated a county
court, and to be composed of five justices of the peace, any three of whom shall
form a quorum, and the eldest by appointment to be president of said court,
whose jurisdiction shall extend to all civil cases originating in said county, where
the matter in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, and to all criminal cases,
saving to the parties the right of appeal to the Governor, in all cases above the
sum of five hundred dollars; and that there shall be no execution for a capital
offense, until the warrant of the Governor be first had and obtained.” The sum
of “five hundred dollars” in the above quotation appears as “five dollars” in the
reprint in A. S. P., Mise. II, 906.



438 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
court in the way I thought best—The proceedings were conducted
with much gravity & decorum—But the act for the government of
Florida, of the 30” March last, having reached me, accidentally, in
the Public papers while the case was before me, I conceived it devested
me of all Judicial cognizance—Yet as it might be some time before
the President could send on the new officers, & I deemed it absolutely
necessary for the Peace & order of this Province, that neither anarchy
nor interregnum should take place—I gave my opinion that the sixth
section divested me of my judicial powers—& as there were persons
specially vested with Judicial powers & who in my opinion would
continue untill superceded in fact—I deemed it indubitably politic
and expedient to take this ground, even if it were not strictly legal.
Yet I think it also sound Law—As I viewed my Judicial & Legislative
powers, secondary, incidental & inferior to my Executive; they might
be & were lopped off on the passage of the act: but my Executive
existed till I received instructions that they had ceased or I was
notified by the new officers of their [MS. torn] succeeded to them—
In a state or Territory distant from the supreme enacting power; I
consider this continuing in offices, ’till the successors actually take
possession of them, or they are divested by instructions from the
proper authority, is a matter of state necessity–And the old officers
still remain with necessary powers to keep the antecedent system in
existence, even by new appointments, if necessary—For I have as
much horror at a vacuum in the Political world as the sage Stagyrite,
had at one in the Physical—I gave a full & pretty warm opinion in
the case of M" Hardy vs Saavedra; but it was oral; except the inclosed
order N° 4—which, when taken into connection with the other in-
closures from 1 to 10, will shew my mode of proceeding—There is a
voluminous record of the case—and it unfolds one of the most corrupt
& flagrant instances of official wickedness or weakness, or both, in
Govt Coppinger & judge Saavedra of which I have ever read in any
court, since the days of Jeffries * & Bromly "–M Rodman, who
advised the appointment of Dº Gibson,” is the Prosecuting Attorney
for the Province, the Law officer, & has been so nearly ever since the
commencement of the Court—So that if ever I am, in point of Law,
incorrect, I consulted the proper officer and made the appointment
at his request—But D* Gibson never acted—so it is an abortion—
Whatever instructions the government will be pleased to give me on
these subjects, I will with great cheerfulness pursue—In the mean
time I will make every one stand to his post, or it will stand alone—
* George Jeffries, Lord Chief Justice of England, who tried at the “bloody
assizes” at Winchester in 1685 the persons implicated in the Monmouth rebellion.
10 Thomas Bromley, Lord Chancellor of England, who in 1587 presided at the
trial of Queen Mary of Scotland.
* Edward R. Gibson's commission as justice of the peace in St. Johns County,
May 15, 1822, is enclosure No. 9 but is not here reproduced.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 439
'till I am properly releived—This remark may (MS. torn] like misan-
thropy or querulousness, but I assure you, it is made, tho' with pain,
yet not in ill humor—that in all my life I never saw so much little
villainy & experienced so much mean ingratitude around me, as I have
in this last year—However I defy malice itself to substantiate, not only
one vitious, but even, intentionally, one improper proceeding, in my
whole administration—To act the part of an upright, independent
officer here, not to link in with certain classes of persons, I soon saw
would be the least profitable and popular course—But I adopted it
from the beginning & have persisted in it—It was what the President
expected of me—And I dont repent it—For one of my great prin-
ciples of belief is—that there is a Moral Government in this world—
And whenever a man knowingly does wrong, he will as certainly, as
he does it, be well punished here for it—in some way or another,
independent of his amenibility to chastisement hereafter—And I am
equally confident if he does right, he will be rewarded here or here-
after—But I have long been fixed in the idea of that great moral
influence acting upon us & of that Retributive Juctice falling sooner
or later in this life, on those who may deserve it *—
With distinguished Consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida.
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington—
[Addressed] The Honb” J. Quincy Adams Secy of State Washington
[Endorsed] Recd. 8th June W. G. D. Worthington—
[Enclosures: CS)
Order to the United States Marshal
Executive Department EAST FLORIDA April 25* 1822–
Col James Grant Forbes, Marshal of the U States for the Floridas
is requested to inform the parties concerned & their Counsel That the
undersigned will sit on the appeal case of M*Hardy vs Saavedra &c
on Monday the 29* inst—
The supreme court of Judicature, for this Province will be opened
at nine oGlock in the forenoon—And the Marshall will be pleased to
make all necessary preparations and arrangements in the premises—
By me the Undersigned The Secº, Act” Governor & Superintendant
of Indian Affairs for the Province of East Florida—
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
[Endorsed] Nº 1 Supreme Court of Judicature for East Florida
Request to the Marshall to convene the Court. with Mº Worthingtons
of 26 May 1822.
12 No acknowledgment found.



440 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
Judicial Order of Acting Governor Worthington
Executive Department East Florida
ST AUGUSTINE May 7th 1822–
The undersigned sitting & presiding in the Supreme Court of Judi-
cature for the Province of East Florida on an appeal from the Judg-
ment of the Court for the county of St Johns in the case of M* Robert
MacHardy against Judge Ruperto Saavedra—The said Case having
been brought up to him on the 13. Ulto—The arguments of Consel
having commenced on the 29* Ulto—And this day in Public & open
court the decision of this tribunal having been made; in virtue
thereof—The undersigned has passed & doth hereby pass the following
final order in the premises—Wiz—
Ordered—that the above recited case be remanded to the aforesaid
Court, whence it was appealed, without prejudice to either or any of
the parties—That the act of Congress of the 30th of March last,”
being in operation before this case was brought up to this Court—The
undersigned by virtue threof considers he can take no Judicial Cong-
nizance thereof—But for the furtherance & obtainment of justice,
recommends and directs that all the proceedings had & to be had in
this case, be carried up on or before the 1* Monday of July next to the
Superior Court of East Florida, enacted & constituted in the 6th
section of said act of Congress—And that all costs & charges incurred
in bringing up this appeal be stayed, and are hereby enjoined ’till the
decision of said superior Tribunal—
Given at the City aforesaid the day & year aforesaid by me the
Undersigned
The Secº Acts Governor & Superintendant of Indian Affairs for the
Province of East Florida
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
[Endorsed] Nº 4.” Order in the case of M*Hardy & Saavedra with
Mr Worthington's of 26 May 1822.
Acting Governor Worthington to John Rodman and John Drysdale
Executive Department East Florida
ST AUGUSTINE May 13, 1822
GENTLEMEN In the Case of M*Hardy & Saavedra, my opinion was
that the Judicial Powers of the Governor of East Florida, ceased on
his being officially informed of the Act of Congress of the 30" of
March organizing the Florida Government”—But his Executive
Powers continued till superseded by an Executive Officer in fact—I was
further of opinion that the Judicial powers of the Judges of the County
*Ante, p. 389.
* Nos. 2 and 3 (present) not here reproduced, are forms of opening and closing
sessions of the supreme court of E. Fla.
is Ante, p. 389.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 441
Court of St Johns & the Justices of the Peace thereof, also Continued
till superseded in fact, by the respective Officers of those Courts ap-
pointed under the new Government—Judge Murray having handed
me his resignation, today, of the 7” Inst, the other Judges I conceive
still in office under the above opinion—
Yours respectfully &
W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Acting Governor of East Florida
MESSRS RODMAN & DRYSDALE Counsellors at Law
[Endorsed] Nº 5. 13 May—’22 Mr Worthington to Messrs Rodman
& Drysdale with Mº Worthington's of 26 May 1822.
Acting Governor Worthington to John Rodman and John Drysdale
Executive Department EAST FLORIDA May 18* 1822
GENTLEMEN When you did me the honor on the 13* inst to wait
on me at the Government House, I understood you that M* Law,
who was the only justice of the Quorum for the County of St Johns,
residing here, had taken up the idea, that in my opinion in the case
of M*Hardy & Saavedra, the Florida act of the 30” of March, had
vacated his commission & altho' you had some important & pressing
legal business, he declined acting, unless you got my opinion that he
was still in office—I, on that statement wrote my opinion of the 13*
Inst.—I understood he afterwards acted—But on the 15—resumed the
notion he was not now in office—and altho' he received his appointment
from me, he was going to forward his resignation to Judge Duval,
whom it was rumoured here, had been appointed Governor of Florida—
That being the case Mr Rodman said, it would be necessary to have
a Justice of the Quorum appointed, as M* Bethune lived in Amelia,
M* Reynolds & Mº Fatio on the St Johns, a long distance from here—
That certain persons were about going to the Havana, and unless a
justice of the Quorum was appointed, Major Murray having hereto-
fore resigned, there would be a failure of legal proceedings—That
M" Rodman & M* Drysdale recommended Dr Edward R. Gibson as
the most fit person that they knew of. I had told Mr Drysdale &
Rodman & others that if it became necessary in any case, I would
act so as that redress should be somewhere—I then made out a com-
mission for Doctor Gibson & gave it to Mr Rodman—saying, the Dº
could accept or not as he thought proper—On the 17* Dº Gibson &
M’ Rodman called on me, I shewed them my commissions & told
them that the existing officers ought to continue 'till superseded under
the new system—On the 18. Dº Gibson resigned—I told Mº Drysdale
if he could recommend any other fit person & he was necessary, I
would appoint him—Determined that nothing like an interregnum
should take place—Deeming it necessary for the peace and tranquillity
of this Province that I ought to risk all responsibility on this subject,
if any existed: as in cases of Felony&cit was necessary to have judicial



442 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
officers in existence, sufficient in number to answer the ends of Govern-
ment &c and that they could not be appointed under the new law for
some months after its passage—So the affairs stand—I am determined
to hold my ground as long as I deem it necessary for the peace & good
order of Florida—The moment I receive official Instruction of being
superseded & that my office is at an end—I will most cheerfully ac-
quiesce in it & not attempt another official act. Till then, I will do
as little as I can under this dubious & equivocal state of things—but
I will do enough to shew every one that the U. States Civil officers are
still in existence here, and will do what they conceive their duty—I
say nothing against those who chose to differ from me—I
will do, myself, what I think the Gov" of the U States expects from me
& I will by all honest and fair means endeavour to induce others to do
the same—Not to suffer Anarchy, interregnum or the stepping in of
anything like despotism—
Please say whether I am correct in the matters of fact; or what is
the full and correct state of things on which you have acted—
Yours Respectfully
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
Secretary & Acting Governor of East Florida—
MESSRS RODMAN & DRYSDALE Counsellors at Law St Augustine—
[Endorsed] Nº 6. 18 May Mr Worthington to Messrs Rodman &
Drysdale with Mr Worthington's of 26 May 1822.
[Enclosures:ALS)
John Rodman to Acting Governor Worthington
ST. AUGUSTINE 20th May 1822
SIR, I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 18th Inst
addressed to M* Drysdale and myself. In answer to which, as far
as relates to myself, I beg leave to make the following observations:
After the delivery of your opinion in the case of McHardy against
Saavedra, Judge Law most assuredly did express doubts in regard
to the existance of the County Court, and hesitated to grant orders
in his character of Judge of that Court. He said that he considered the
late act of Congress, providing for the Government of Florida, as
virtually abolishing the County Court. Upon observing to him that
you had not gone so far in the opinion you had pronounced in the
above mentioned cause, he expressed a desire to see that opinion.
It was in consequence of this desire that Mº Drysdale and myself
took the liberty to call on you and request a copy of it. When it was
shown to Judge Law, as I am informed by Mº Drysdale, he seemed
to acquiesce in its correctness, in regard to the County Courts, and
the existance of his powers still as a Judge—in consequence of which
he signed a writ of injunction in a cause then just instituted in that
Court.



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 443
The next day, however, he again expressed doubts of his powers as
a Judge, and finally declined signing any more orders, or in any other
matter acting in that capacity. He therefore returned me a paper
containing an order to examine a witness in a cause pending in the
County Court, and who was about to leave this place for the Havana,
declaring that he did not consider himself authorised to sign the
order. It was on this occasion in M* Gibbs's office that he mentioned
his intention of resigning, and said that he should send his resignation
to Governor Duval at Pensacola. Upon my suggesting to him the
propriety of sending it to you, in order that you might make another
appointment in his place, he observed that he viewed the late act of
Congress as abrogating your powers, as acting Governor, and that
the most proper course would be to send his resignation to Governor
Duval.
There being then no Judge here to act, and having some cases of an
urgent nature, in which orders to hold to bail and to examine wit-
nesses were necessary, I took the liberty to call on you and represent
the embarassing situation in which we were placed, and the serious
evils which must flow from an opinion in the community that the
functions of the Judges had ceased, and that there was neither law
nor Justice in the Country—and could be none until the late Act of
Congress should go into operation. You did not hesitate to declare
that you considered your powers as acting Governor, under your
commissions and the official instructions from the President, through
Mº Adams, as still subsisting; and in consequence you appointed D'
Gibson to the office of Judge of the County Court. This gentleman,
at first, accepted, but without doing any one Act as a Judge, the
next day thought proper to resign. Thus, we are left without any
Judge, in this place, to discharge the most important duties connected
with the public peace and the administration of Justice.
I have now, I believe stated all the facts, within my knowledge, to
which you allude in your letter.
With regard to the opinion you have expressed respecting your
powers, as acting Governor, still subsisting, and that they must
necessarily subsist until you receive a supersedeas, or some other
official Notice of their termination; and also in relation to the con-
tinued existance of the County Court, I have no hesitation in saying
that I agree with you.
I must confess that we are in an anomalous state of things. The
late Act of Congress providing for the government of Florida, though
said to be drawn up by men of abilities, is vague and ambiguous on
many important points, and woefully deficient in the most essential
one—the Judiciary. But the provision in the last section but one,
for the continuance of the existing laws, until altered or annulled by
the Legislative Council, I conceive gives complete Sanction to the



444 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ordinances of Gov" Jackson, and consequently the Continuance of the
County Court—Justices of the peace, and City Council of St.
Augustine, established by those ordinances.
I know, indeed, that a contrary opinion is entertained by some
respectable persons in this place; but this appears to me necessarily
to lead to anarchy and confusion. In that case, we should, until the
Legislative Council meet and provide otherwise, be without law either
civil or criminal. Crimes of the deepest dye would go unpunished.
Every specious of violence and disorder might be committed before
our eyes with impunity. Some persons, indeed, are willing to admit
that the County Court, Justices of the peace and City Council are
still in lawful existance, but that your powers as acting Governor,
have ceased, and that should all the Judges and Justices die or resign,
their places could not be filled up by you. This reasoning appears
to me but little less absurd than the other.
Would it not lead to the same dreadful consequences? Suppose
all the Justices of the peace in this City, entertaining the scruples
which opinions of this nature are calculated to engender, should
immediately give up their commissions, what authority would remain,
I would ask, to arrest any criminal however heinous the offense
charged against him? None indeed, but the Military—and I forbear
to dwell on the consequences which would result to the Country at
large from such a state of things.
With great respect, I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient
Servant
J. RODMAN
HIS EXCELLENCY W. G. D. WoRTHINGTON Acting Governor of
East Florida
[Addressed] His Excellency W. G. D. Worthington Acting Governor
of East Florida
[Endorsed] Nº 7. Mr Rodmans ans' with Mº Worthingtons of 26
May 1822.
John Drysdale to Acting Governor Worthington
Sº AUGUSTINE 20 May 1822
SIR I have had the honor to receive your Letter of the 18 Ins",
addressed to M' Rodman and myself jointly, on the subject of some
recent transactions growing out of the present state of the Judiciary
in this Territory, and of the exercise of your powers as Governor of it;
in which you are pleased to desire that we should say, whither you
are correct in the matters of fact contained in it, and what the full
and correct state of things on which we have acted, in the transactions
referred to, is—
As some of the circumstances adverted to in your Letter took place
with, and in the presence of, us separately, in the course of our profes-



FLO RI D A T E R R I TOR Y 445
sional avocations; and as the conduct of Gentlemen holding official
stations is the subject of our present intercourse; it is deemed proper,
both by M. Rodman & myself, that we should severally and separately
reply to your enquiries—
The statement contained in your Letter of what transpired between
you Mº Rodman and myself in the interview we had the honor to
have with you at the Government House on the 13 Inst is according
to my recollection perfectly correct—That interview was one sought
by me and participated in by M. Rodman at my request; and my
desire of it arose out of a previous refusal by Judge Law to grant on
my application an order for Bail. This refusal of the Judge was
founded on the impression that the recent act of Congress making
provision for the Government of this Territory, in connection with
that of the last year making temporary provision for its Government,
had wholly superseded the powers of the Judicial officers appointed
by Governor Jackson The fact of Judge Laws refusal to act officially
and the above cause of it, were in the interview referred to, stated to
you by Mº Rodman & myself—We farther, in accordance with a desire
expressed by Judge Law, requested and obtained from you, in writing,
the substance of your opinion, as to the particular point of the present
powers of the Judges of the County Courts and the Justices of the
peace, delivered by you in your recent decision of the Appellate cause
of M*Hardy against Saavedra—This statement was delivered to Judge
Law on the following morning; and judging from his conduct, I did
suppose, either, that the opinion which it contained, on the subject
of his doubts, had removed them; or that allowing it the weight which
the decision of an Appellate Tribunal on a doubtful point is entitled
to, he acquiesced in it—The conduct to which I refer and which justi-
fied these conclusions was—the granting a Writ of Injunction applied
for by me, and an expression of his willingness to grant the order for
Bail previously refused—In the course of one or two days however
Judge Law's mind on the question of his powers again changed, and
returned to the opinion that his Judicial authority was at end; and the
the Declaration on which the Judge was to have given the order for
Bail before referred to was returned to me without it—
Although I did not personally recommend Dº Gibson to the seat on
the Bench recently vacated by Judge Murrays resignation, I approved
of it highly—I had been consulted by Mº Rodman previously to his
recommendation of that Gentleman to this place, and I concurred
with him entirely in opinion that he was the fittest person in this City
whose situation would admit of the acceptance of it, to fill this office—
Not imagining for a moment that my name could have had any in-
fluence on your mind in the appointment of Dº Gibson, I yet beg to
state that so far as Mº Rodman may have used it in his recommenda-
tion of that Gentleman, he was fully authorised so to do—The circum-



446 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
stances of Judge Laws intended resignation, or the manner in which
he contemplated making it, have not, I think been at any time ad-
verted to by me to you or by any other person in my presence—
These I think are all the facts within my own immediate knowledge
connected with your enquiries; and they form the basis of any agency
or concern which I may have had in relation to the subjects of your
Letter
Aware as I am of the entire inefficacy to any useful purpose of the
expression of my approbation or disapprobation of the conduct
pursued by you upon the present singularly embarrassed state of the
Government of this Territory and of your own situation particularly,
I may yet, I would hope, without incurring the imputation of pre-
sumption, be permitted to state, that it has met my unqualified ap-
probation—If the administration of justice shall now be denied, and
thence in many cases be forever lost,--if crime shall stalk abroad in
open day and go unpunished, of the population of this country, of a
mixed and unsettled character generally, and partially passing from
a state of comparative despotism, shall learn by the absence of all
law that its power consists mainly in the habitual reverence which is
yielded to it, and hereafter continue its renewed application,-you
will be enabled conscientiously to hold yourself clear of these evils—
of the continuing power of the Judicial officers appointed previously
to the passage of the late act of Congress, so far as the validity of such
appointments depends on the nonexistence of that act, I am firmly,
though perhaps erroneously persuaded—of the continuance of your
powers as the Govt of this Territory so far as concerns the appointment
of judicial officers, admitting these powers to have been lawfully
exercised before the passage of the late act of Congress, I am bound
by a regard to candor to say, that I have serious doubts
Yet convinced as I am that every exercise of power since your
executive authority has been questioned, has been assumed by you
for the manifest good of the public,+the error, if in truth any have
been committed, is entitled in my opinion not merely to forbearance
but to respect and applause—because committed in such a manner
as to violate no rights, and on one of those occassions on which a due
sense of public duty demanded the hazard of private responsibility—I
have the honor to be respectfully Sir Your ob" Serv"
JNO DRYSDALE
HIS EXCELLENCY W G D. WORTHINGTON Act” Gov' &c."
[Addressed] His Excellency W. G. D. Worthington Gov' E Florida
[Endorsed] No 8.” Mr Drysdale one of the oldest & ablest Lawyers
here his ans. with Mr Worthingtons of 26 May 1822.
19 Enclosure No. 10 (present) is an extract from Jackson's letter of June 25, 1821
(ante, p. 91), giving Worthington discretion as to appointments and suspensions.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 447
ACTING GOVERNOR WORTHINGTON (EAST FLORIDA) TO
GOVERNOR DUVAL 17
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:CS)
Executive Department EAST FLORIDA May 27 1822–
SIR Understanding by to days mail that Congress rose on the 8*
inst, I conceive my powers as Secretary, Acting Governor & Superin-
tendant of Indian affairs for East Florida, to be at an end: And taking
it for granted that you are, at least by this time both personally &
officially in Florida as Governor thereof—I have simply made requi-
sition for 27 rations for some Tampa Indians to day, & this is perhaps
the last time that I shall affix my signature to anything in the capacity
of chief Magistrate for East Florida—
You will be so good as to inform me what I shall do with the papers
of the Executive office here & what disposition shall be made of the
premises I now occupy, it being that of the Old Government House—
With Very great respect &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
HIS EXCELLENCY W* P DUVAL Governor of Florida Pensacola—
[Addressed] His Excellency Gov. DuVal Pensacola
[Endorsed] Nº 1—W. G. D. Worthington—
F-
WILLIAM F. STEELE 18 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:LS)
United States Attorney's Office (W. F.) [May 1822)
SIR, The Grand Inquest for the District of West Florida at the
term of May 1822 made presentment of the utter insufficiency of the
public Jail of West-Florida which presentment I learn has not as yet
been made known to the Government.—The Calabozo, or public
Goal of Pensacola in use during the time of the Spanish possession,
is now in such a state of dilapidation as to be wholly unfitted for the
confinement of Offenders—who have been & probably will be for
some years henceforth, on account of our local situation and for other
causes of such a class as to require the strongest edifice for their
accomodation or security. The only method which was practicable
for the Safe Keeping of the Crew of the Pirates belonging to the
* Enclosed in a covering letter from Worthington to the Secretary of State,
May 28, 1822 (NA, SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, X). Also enclosed with the same
letter is the farewell address from Worthington to the citizens of E. Fla., May 27,
1822.
* Steele subsequently received a recess appointment as U. S. Attorney for W.
Fla. in succession to Tipton B. Harrison, who died early in Sept. 1822 (post, p. 531);
he was nominated to the Senate, Jan. 3, 1823, and confirmed Jan. 6 (Senate Exec.
Journal, III, 318, 319). See post, p. 589.



448 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Schooner Carmen—tried here in January last was by turning them over
to the Col. commanding the 4* Regm' U. S. Infº by whom a daily
guard was detailed from the Reg" for a period of some months, for
their Security. In a late instance it became necessary also to make a
call upon the officer commanding the 4* Reg' U. S. Art” on this
station to receive two Prisoners charged with serious offences, the
officer did not decline, but after expressing a wish to do every thing
in his power to promote justice, intimated, that the reception of the
Prisoners would be for many reasons a serious inconvenience, which
he would if possible most gladly avoid. This being the State of
things, and the population being yet so small here as to make it
impossible for the Marshal to detail a sufficient Citizen's guard in such
cases it is beleived the Government will realize the necessity of taking
measures for the speedy erection of a suitable Public Prison for this
District.
The records required by the Circular of the 23° April ult” are here-
with transmitted together with a Bill of charges.”—
I have the honor to be Sir, with much respect Your most obed'
hble. Serv"
WILLIAM F STEELE
To/Hon. John QUINCY ADAMS Secº of State U. S.
[Endorsed] Steele W* F. Pensacola,
t-
RECOMMENDATION OF GREENBURY GAITHER ºn
AS COUNCILOR
[NA:SD, Applications:DS]
[No date, 1822)
To HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
We the Citizens of East Florida having been informed of the inten-
tion of of our fellow citizen Joseph M. Hernandez to resign the appoint-
ment of member of the Executive Council of Florida in the event of
his receiving that honor, a rumour of which has reached our ears, do
most respectfully present to the consideration of your Excellency
1° Not present.
* Gaither received a recess appointment June 4, 1822 as member of the Legis-
lative Council; he was subsequently nominated to the same post Dec. 23, 1822 and
confirmed Jan. 31 1823 for the term ending May 4, 1823 (Senate, Exec. Journal,
III, 314, 329). His appointment filled the vacancy caused by the resignation of
Joseph M. Hernandez (ante, p. 423, n.) He had previously served as judge of St.
Johns County Court, and also in the District Court at St. Augustine, for which
services he was paid the sum of $183.80 for the period Dec. 4, 1821—Apr. 25, 1822
(NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 449, certified Aug. 23, 1823). As a
member of the Council he was paid the sum of $306.00 for services and mileage
during the period July 22–Sept. 18, 1822. The base pay was $3.00 per day (loc.
cit., p. 450). See post, p. 566.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 449
Greenbury Gaither Esq. as a gentleman eminently qualified to fill
that station and as one possessing our entire confidence.
Sam' Sanees Seymour J. R. Hanham
Bernardo Segui G. Darling
John A. Cavedo Sam" Fairbank
Geo: Gibbs Jn° Drysdale
Will. Reynolds Daniel S Gardner
Edward R. Gibson Amos Arnold
James Hall E. C. Sickels.
John M. Fontané Lewis Haguon
Joseph Simeon Sanchez Antonio Alvarez
Antonio Giraldo J* Casheu
John Rodman M E Levy
Edmund Law Alexander Hamilton
Tho. H. Penn. Mateo C Solano
G. W. Perpall
[Endorsed] Sundry Citizens of East Florida Recommend Greenbury
Gaither as a Member of the Legislative Council
RECOMMENDATION OF GEORGE MURRAY AS
COUNCILOR 2
[NA:SD, Applications:DS]
[No date, 1822)
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
The memorial of the Subscribers, inhabitants of East Florida,
respectfully Sheweth: That having been informed that Bernardo Segui
Esq. has been appointed by your Excellency a member of the Legis-
lative Council of Florida, to meet at Pensacola, on the Second Monday
of next month, and Mº Segui having declined accepting of said ap-
pointment, We beg leave most respectfully to recommend, as a fit
person to fill his place, George Murray Esq., late presiding Judge of,
the County Court of this Territory, having full confidence in his
integrity, patriotism and talents.
1 Forwarded to the President by Alexander Hamilton, May 21, 1822 (NA, SD
Applications).
* Murray received a recess appointment June 4, 1822, as a member of the
Legislative Council in place of Bernardo Segui, who declined the office (ante, p.
423, n.); he was subsequently nominated to the same post Dec. 23, 1822, and con-
firmed Jan. 31, 1823, for the year ending May 4, 1823 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III
314, 329).
301867—57––30



450 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Wm. McCoskry John A. Cavedo
Rich" Murray Franco Ferreira
Jose S. Sanchez Jn” Du'Bose
John Whalton John Lowe
Ede Van Evour Jn” Drysdale
John Geiger J. Rodman
John Johnson Geo: Gibbs
William Travers M E Levy
John M. Fontané Tho. H. Penn
John Bullen John B. Strong
Fran" J de Medicis Joseph M. Sanchez
H. Dousman Edmund Law
J* Cashen Cha" Robion
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN R. BELL
[NA:WD, SW Confidential Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR June 1* 1822.
CAPT" JoHN R. BELL U. S. Army S*Augustine
SIR, When the appointment of Indian Agents were made, at the
close of the late session of Congress I laid your name, and that of
Lieu' Col. Humphreys who was also an applicant, before the President
for the appointment of Agent in Florida. After due consideration
the President nominated Col. Humphrey.” His recent disbandment
which was one of the hardest cases at the late reduction, and his
present restricted means of support, of himself and family gave him
high claims to the patronage of the government. His selection was
induced wholly by these considerations, and not upon any idea of
superior fitness over yourself. On the contrary the President would
have availed himself of your capacity and experience in the affairs
of the Indians in Florida, but for the reasons above mentioned. The
President considered that your present command in the Army did
not throw you so peculiarly upon the patronage of the government
Under this view you will see that the appointment of Col. Humphrey
was in a degree unavoidable, and was not made in preference to
yourself, or from any diminution of confidence in your capacity and
integrity.
J. C. C.
* Ante, p. 429.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 451
COMMISSION OF HENRY M. BRACKENRIDGE AS JUDGE
(WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]
[June 5, 1822]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Wisdom, Uprightness and Learning of HENRY M. BRACKENRIDGE
of Florida, I do appoint him Judge in and over that part of the Terri-
tory of Florida, known as West Florida; and do authorize and
empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according
to the Constitution and laws of the United States; and to Have and
to Hold the said office with all the powers, privileges and emoluments
to the same of right appertaining unto him the said HENRY M.
BRACKENRIDGE until the end of the next Session of the Senate of the
United States and no longer."
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to
L. S. be made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be
hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of
Washington the fifth day of June A. D. 1822; and of the Independence
of the United States of America, the Forty-Sixth.
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
E.
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE SECRETARY OF
THE TREASURY
[NA:ND, SN Exec. Let. Bk. 1]
NAVY DEPM* 7th June 1822
HoNB” W* H. CRAWFORD Sect” of the Treasury
SIR By direction from the President of the U States, I have to
request, that you will give the necessary instructions to Lieut" Taylor,"
commandant of the Revenue Cutter Crawford, or to such other per-
sons as you may think proper, to discharge the vessel lately seized
in the river Sº Johns, loaded with cedar timber," and to deliver the
* A recess appointment. The commission was forwarded to Brackenridge
June 11, 1822 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX), and acknowledged by him July 14
(loc. cit., Misc. Lets.). See post, p. 630. A commission for this judgeship, dated
Apr. 17, 1822 (NA, SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.), was sent to John Branch, of N. C.,
Apr. 30, 1822 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX), but he declined the appointment on
May 11 (NA, SD, Reg. Lets. Recd., No. 2). See ante, p. 416, n.
* William B. G. Taylor.
* This is evidently the cargo of timber referred to in the letter of the Secretary
of the Treasury to Archibald Clark (ante, p. 436).



452 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
timber to Aaron Smith Esq" or his Agent at M* Smith's giving such
discharge as you may deem sufficient against all claims for damages
on account of the seizure or detention"—
Very respectfy &" SMITH THOMPSON
:-
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 11 June 1822.
HIS EXCELLENCY W* P DUVALL Governor of Florida Pensacola
SIR, The Governor of the territory of Florida to which Office you
have been appointed,” being charged, ex Officio, with the Superin-
tendence of Indian affairs within that territory, I herewith enclose
to you Copies of the Act regulating intercourse with the Indian tribes,
passed the 30” March 1802,” and of the amendatory acts passed in
1816,” and at the late session of Congress " which indicate your
duties, generally, as superintendent of Indian affairs.
There will be within your superintendency one Indian Agent and
one sub agent. Col”. Humphreys, late of the Army, has been
appointed the Agent & Cap' Pelham, also of the Army, the Sub Agent.
Col”. Humphreys will be directed to report himself to you,” and you
will give him such instructions as you may deem necessary to insure
a just and faithfull execution of the several provisions of the enclosed
Acts, and of such other duties as must necessarily arise out of his
intercourse with the Indians. He will report to you, from time to
time, his proceedings, and keep you informed of every thing which
may be interesting to be known in relation to the Indians; which you
will communicate to this Department as often as you may judge
necessary. The sub Agent will be under the control of the Agent,
as well as yourself, and will make his reports and communications
thro’ him, except when that course will be attended with inconveni-
ence or delay—in which case he will communicate directly to you.
You will require the Indian Agent to furnish you regularly with quar-
terly estimates of the expenses of his Agency including the pay of the
sub agent, from which you will make out a general estimate of the
expenses of the Indian Department within your superintendency, as
much in detail as possible, for each quarter; which you will transmit
to this Department, one quarter in advance, and upon which funds
will be remitted to you from the Treasury. Your draft of the 30th
of April, last, in favor of Levi Tyler, for $600, has been presented and
* See post, p. 583.
* Post, p. 469.
0 2 STAT. 139–146.
10 Approved Apr. 29, 1816, 3 STAT. 382–833.
11 Approved May 6, 1822, 3 STAT.682–688.
* See post, p. 474.



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 453
paid, and will be considered a part of the sum allotted to your super-
intendency; but in future no drafts will be made on this Department—
funds will be remitted to you from the Treasury upon your quarterly
estimates only, unless this Department, under particular circum-
stances should direct otherwise. You will pay the agent his salary
and place in his hands quarterly, out of the funds that may be allotted
to your Superintendency for presents to Indians and Contingencies,
such sums to be applied to those objects, as may appear to you from
his estimates and your own observation, to be necessary and required
by the public interest. The sub Agent will be paid, thro’ the Agent,
quarterly, or if more convenient he may be paid by you.
The following sums have been allotted, out of the appropriations
for this year, for the expenses of the Indian Department within your
superintendency, to wit:
For pay of Sub Agent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 500
For presents to Indians . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
For Contingencies—to wit—pay of | 1000
Interpreters, rations to Indians &") ' ' ' ' ' '
- $2,500
In the above allotment of funds nothing is included for the pay of the
Indian Agent, as it is uncertain at what time he will be ready to com-
mence his duties: Whenever he reports to you and commences them,
you will include in your quarterly estimates the sum that will be
necessary to pay his Salary, which is fixed by law at the rate of $1500–
per annum.
The sums allowed for the pay of a Sub Agent, presents and Contin-
gencies, must, in no event, without the authority of this Department,
be exceeded.
The Act making it the duty of the Territorial governors to act as
Superintendents of Indian affairs affixes no Compensation for duty,”
it nevertheless has been usual to allow the expense which they may
incur in performing their duty, and extra compensation for extra
duty, (that is, such as is not attached to them as Superintendents,)
where it has been performed. On an Account rendered, your actual
expenses resulting from your intercourse with the Indians will be
allowed; and should you be called on to perform any duty which does
not belong to you as Superintendent of Indian Affairs, on a Certified
statement of the facts, suitable Compensation will be made.
Mr Worthington the late Secretary and acting Governor of Florida
drew on this Department some time ago for $1000, on account of
Indian expenses, and he has been directed to pay over the balance
is Ante, p. 389. A resolution of Congress of Oct. 3, 1787, first united the office
of Superintendent of Indian Affairs in the Northwest Territory with that of the
Governor. See Terr. Papers (N.W.), II, 189. See also act approved Sept. 11,
1789 (1 STAT, 67–68).



454 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
remaining in his hands to Capº Pelham, the Sub Agent—If Cap'
Pelham has received this balance you will ascertain of him the amount
of it, and, if the whole or any part of it has been expended by him,
direct him to render you an account thereof—Should any balance
remain, he will hold it subject to your orders.
The Act passed at the late session of Congress contains several
new and important provisions to which your attention is particularly
called. You will require the Indian Agent to make to you regular
returns of the licenses issued by him in virtue of the authority vested
in him by the 1* Section of this act, and you will make out, in the
manner and form therein prescribed, an abstract of all licenses issued
by the Agent or by yourself, to the 1* September in each year, which
you will transmit to this Department annually on that day, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, to be laid before Congress.
A punctual compliance with the 3* Section, relative to the settlement
of Accounts, will be rigidly exacted. The law is imperative and a
failure, on the part of those concerned, to comply with its requisitions
in this respect, will render it necessary to report them as delinquents,
and to withhold from them any further advance of funds, until these
accounts shall have been settled. The accounts of the Agent should
be rendered to you quarterly, to be transmitted to this Department
with your own for the same period, as soon after the close of each
quarter as practicable—At all events, the agents accounts as well as
your own, for the whole year, must be transmitted within one month
after the 1st of September in each year, so as to be settled to that
period, annually, as required by the Act. The accounts of the Agent
as well as your own must be accompanied by a general abstract of all
disbursements, within each quarter—for the present year to the 1st
September next, and regularly thereafter for every year ending on
that day—detailing under distinct heads the various objects of dis-
bursement, to wit: pay of Agent, sub Agent, & Interpreters, presents,
rations &c. &c. so as to leave as few as possible to be embraced under
the general head of “Contingencies”. To this abstract a statement
must be annexed, shewing the names of all persons who have been
employed, in the Indian Department, by the Agent or yourself, within
each quarter, as Interpreters or any other capacity whatever, with
the amount of wages paid them respectively. These abstracts and
statements are indispensibly necessary, to enable the Department to
lay before Congress the annual statement required by the 3* Section
of the Act, and should be carefully prepared and punctually rendered.
The accounts with the abstracts and statements will be examined by
you and transmitted to this Department, with such explanations and
remarks thereon as you may think proper to make, for revision,
previous to their being passed to the 2nd Auditor for settlement.



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 455
It is deemed unnecessary to enlarge upon all the points to which
your attention will be directed by the Act of 1802 and the amendatory
acts herewith, not doubting but your judgment will suggest to you
every thing which may be necessary to a due execution of all of their
provisions
Orders have been given, thro’ the proper Officer, to Officers com-
manding military posts in relation to the execution of the duty required
of them by the 2nd Section of the act passed at the late Session of
Congress.”
I have &c.
J. C. C.
t-
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
WAR DEPARTMENT June 14* 1822
DEAR SIR, I have recently received a letter from Mr. Ware, one
of the Commissioners in Florida, of which the enclosed is an extract
which I submit for your consideration. In relation to the Treaties
about which he inquires I have to remark that there are some such in
this, Department, copies of which may be furnished if you should
think proper.
I have the honor to be Your mº ob" serv"
J C. CALHOUN
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
[Endorsed] Calhoun John C. W. D. 14 June 1822 Recd 23. encloses
a Letter from Commr Ware
[Enclosure]
Nathaniel A. Ware to the Secretary of War
Extract of a letter from Nathaniel A Ware Esq to The Secretary of
War dated Charleston 30 June 1822
“Mess" Walker and Williams told me they had requested M*
Crawford, whose duty they considered it more immediately to be, to
send on my Commission and any documents that might have a bearing,
to direct the duties of the board; to Pensacola. It occurs to me how-
ever that the Department of State might be in possession of some
documents; such as the Treaties between us and Spain; the treaty
between Spain and England; any proclamation or decree of the Spanish
or English governments, regarding the grantees of land in Florida;
any act of the English Parliament going to compensate the English
* Reply, if any, not found,



456 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
grantees for their Florida lands, or any agreement between England
and the Indians or between Spain and the Indians guarrantying the
Indians title by limits &c.”
-
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA June 16** 1822.
SIR/ By yesterday's mail, I received an Official communication
from the Department of State dated the 17* of May,” enclosing my
Commission (dated 25* April 1") as Secretary of the Territory of
Florida. I gratefully accept this flattering mark of the President's
confidence and good opinion, and through you take the liberty of
respectfully offering him my thanks.
With the exception of M* Overton, one of the Commissioners,” and
D" Bronaugh,” none of the gentlemen appointed to Offices in the Terri-
tory have arrived here—Governor Duval has not been heard from
since he was seen by D" Bronaugh in Kentucky, but we are in daily
expectation of seeing him. Last Monday the four members of the
Council who reside at this place, (but who have not yet received their
Commissions,) met according to the provision of the Act of Congress,
and adjourned until the Monday following. What prospect there is
of the arrival of the Members from St. Augustine I am unable to say.
My situation at present is extremely unpleasant. An Opinion pre-
vails among many that the temporary organization under Gen.'
Jackson expired of itself with the end of the last Session of Congress,
and that no legal Government can exist, until the one provided by the
last Act of Congress shall be put in operation. For my own part I
entertain no doubt that until the present government, be actually and
practically superceded, it is my duty to proceed as heretofore—A
different determination would lead to results from which the mind
would revolt. Under existing circumstances I have endeavoured to
do the best in my power. But in this state of uncertainty, almost
all public business is at a stand, and some embarrassment has been
Occasioned.”
1* Not found.
1° Ante, p. 413.
17 See ante, p. 428.
1* See ante, p. 422.
* Legally speaking, the history of the Territory of Florida, already established
on paper (ante, p. 389), began on the date of the receipt of Walton's commission.
The appointed Governor (DuVal) not having arrived, Walton, now clothed with
his commission as Secretary, became ipso facto the Acting Governor of the terri-
tory, and no longer that of the province of W. Fla. This was a principle em-
bodied in the original Ordinance of 1787 that in the absence of the Governor, the



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 457
I have not yet received any intimation from the Department of
State, of the amount which would be allowed me for my services as
Secretary and Acting Governor of West Florida. This is at the
present moment peculiarly desirable to me in order that I may be
enabled to make arrangements which may be important to my
private affairs.- -
I drew upon your Department on the 8” of October for three
hundred dollars, on the 12* of November for four hundred dollars,
and on the 13° of May for five hundred dollars—Not Knowing the
exact sum I may expect to be allowed me, I have refrained from
drawing for a greater amount until I should be informed on the
subject.
I beg leave to call your attention to my letter of the 4” of December
last "on the subject of the rent of the house which I at present occupy,
and the extra expenses I have unavoidably incurred, and most
earnestly request that it be laid before the President for his considera-
tion, if the subject has not already been settled.
For yourself, Sir, be pleased to accept the assurances of my sincere
respect and high consideration.”
I am Sir Yr. Most Obdt Servt.
GEO. WALTON
THE HON” J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State. Washington.
[Endorsed] Walton George Pensacola, 16th June 1822 Recd 11th
July. His salary and compensation.
Secretary should perform the Governor's functions. Walton was evidently un-
aware, also, of situations in other territories which paralleled his own in which
the Secretary actually administered the territory until the arrival of the Governor.
See, for example, Terr. Papers (Ill.), XVI, 29 et seq. and ibid. (Ark.), XIX, 85 et seq.
In each instance the Governor was late in arriving and the Secretary, duly com-
missioned, was on the ground and commenced the administration of the terri-
torial government. Walton's position is understandable, however, in view of the
expectation of the early arrival of Governor DuVal, which in fact occurred five
days later (post, p. 470, n.). It must also be noted that Walton was paid as Sec-
retary and Acting Governor of W. Fla. for the period May 18, 1821–June 20,
1822, in the sum of $1639.72 in addition to other items than salary (NA, GAO,
Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 323, certified Dec. 31, 1822). See, however,
Walton's certificate, dated Feb. 4, 1822, that he assumed office as Secretary of
West Florida on Aug. 10, 1821, relieving Capt. Call on that date (NA,GAO,
Misc. Treas. Accts., No. 1130 [1822)).
* Ante, p. 292, under date of Dec. 1, 1821.
21 Answered post, p. 514.



458 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE MOST REVEREND BISHOP ENGLAND TO THE
PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
CHARLESTON, (S.C) June 17–1822
SIR I have just received a letter from Alexander Hamilton Esq."
of Sº Augustine informing me of the death of the Revd Mr Crosby *
for many years Roman Catholic pastor of that City,+The letter
contains the following passage
“I have been given to understand that the Church property be-
longed to the King of Spain, & by relation it has become that of the
United States, of course, whenever the United States shall act, they
will dispose of it in such manner as will be adapted to the political
changes of this country.”—
I beg to apprise your Excellency of this in order to put you imme-
diately in possession of the facts, & to submit, that when the King
of Spain or any other Sovereign power gives property to any cor-
poration, such as under Spain the Roman Catholic Church of Augus-
tine was, the sovereign divests himself thereof & vests it in the cor-
poration to whom it is given, At the cession of Florida then this
property did not belong to the King of Spain, but to the Roman
Catholic Church of Sº Augustine, it was not of course transferred to
the United States as the transfer to them was not the transfer of
Church property which this was & is, but of Crown property which
this was not.—The death of Mr Crosby nearly twelve months after
the cession & possession of the territory of Florida could make no
change whatever in the title of the property, if it belonged to the
State during his life the claim would have been made & the posses-
sion sought then, I can not vouch for the accuracy of my informa-
tion, nor for the correctness of my surmises but though I acquit
M" Hamilton altogether of any sinister intentions, still I suspect
from information which I have received that the teachers of another
religious body who have very few, if any adherents in Sº Augustine
wish to deprive the Roman Catholics who are the principal & most
numerous body of inhabitants of their property.—I have during some
months past been frequently prepared for the attempt which is now
likely to be made—
The Roman Catholics claim no privileges to which their fellow
Citizens are not entitled—they claim no favour or affection in the
eye of the State, but they do expect that by becoming Citizens of
the United States they shall not lose the property which they pre-
viously possessed & held until now—
The Roman Catholics have been making arrangements to conform
in every thing to the Spirit of this republic, and as those of Florida
* Michael Crosby.



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 459
have hitherto been subject to the Bishop of Havanna, they conceive
it would be more accordant to the wishes & feelings of their fellow
citizens that they should be under the Spiritual jurisdiction of an
American Citizen, & hence the necessary regulations for effecting
this object have been commenced at Rome, by whose sanction the
regulations must be completed—They calculated upon those funds
with the loss of which they are now threatened, as the means of
enabling them to effect their object,
Your Excellency will I am convinced immediately perceive that
national & individual justice, peace, harmony & the public good
require that the Roman Catholics of the Territory of Florida shall
be permitted to retain the possession of those funds for the support
of religion which they held previous to at the time of, & since their
admission into the Union— -
With high sentiments of respect, esteem & confidence I remain
Your Excellency's Most obedient humble Servant
John, Bishop of Charleston—
The Right Rev" Doctor England
To HIs ExCELLENCY JAMES MONROE President of the United
States of America
[Addressed] To his Excellency James Monroe President of the
United States Washington D. C -
[Endorsed] to the President. The Right Rev" Bishop England
Charleston 17 June 1822 Church property in Sº Augustine. [For
the Attorney General his opinion * church property S*Augustine.”)
-
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
St AUGe June 18. 1822
SIR, I take the liberty to request your attention to the 7” Section
of the Act, establishing the territorial government of Florida,” in
virtue of which I have been appointed, as there appears a variance
between the extent of the powers designated by the Act and those
confered by my commission. The Act declares, “there shall be
appointed two persons learned in the law to act as attorneys for the
United States, as well as for the territory” and by the phraseology of
my Commission, I am only appointed “Attorney of the United States”.
If you should not consider the words “as well as the territory” an
immaterial omission, which are in my estimation essential, be pleased
* Post, p. 492. See also post, p. 501.
* The portion in brackets in the President's hand.
* Ante, p 389.



460 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
to forward a new commission and direct in what manner I shall
dispose of that which I possess.
I am without the laws of the United States, and understand, they
never were forwarded to my predecessor.”
I have the honor to remain with much respect Your Ob H. Sev"
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
To THE HON" JoHN QUINCY ADAMS SEC7 OF STATE–
ANONYMOUS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:AL *]
ST. AUGUSTINE 18th June 1822
SIR, The writer of this letter is a native American Citizen, and a
resident inhabitant of East Florida. He feels a deep interest in the
welfare and prosperity of this Territory.
He is persuaded that several highly improper appointments have
been made to the civil offices in this Country;-and he feels it now
his duty to warn the government against an appointment, reported
to be about to be made of very considerable importance. It is that
of a Collector of the Customs at Key West.
It is understood here that George Murray Esqr., commonly called
Major Murray, and sometimes Judge Murray, from his having, for
a short time been one of the Judges of the County Court in this
Territory, appointed by Mº Worthington, while acting as Governor
here. Major Murray left this place about three weeks ago for
Washington—nobody, but his confidential friends, could divine his
object, after the adjournment of congress—but it has since leaked
out, indeed, avowed by one of his friends, that he went for the pur-
pose of getting the office of Collector at Key-West—and that he
meant to avail himself of a Strong recommendation in his favour for
a very different office, which had imprudently been signed by many
respectable inhabitants in this place, who at the time were very far
from imagining the use to which that recommendation either was
originally intended to be put, or might be turned. He was recom-
mended to fill the place of Mº Segui a Spanish gentleman here, who
had been appointed by the President, one of the Legislative Council
to meet at Pensacola the 10” of this month.
Mº Segui, at first agreed to go, but Mr Hernandez having declined
going, Mº Segui also declined—and as the inhabitants of this place
were extremely desirous that East Florida, should have its full propor-
tion of representatives in the Council, they immediately, on M* Segui's
* Answered post, p. 507.
* A close examination of the handwriting in this letter discloses a distinct
similarity to that of Rodman to Worthington, May 20, 1822 (ante, p. 442).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 461
declining looked about for a person to fill his place, who would go to
Pensacola with the other Counsellers, who were then about to sail
from this place, and there wait for his Commission from Washington;
presuming that the President would, in order to fill up the vacancy—
appoint any person who should be well recommended by the inhabit-
ants here. Major Murray then offered himself—said that he was
going to Pensacola, at all events, and was very desirous of being
appointed a Counsellor—There was no other person could be found
willing to go at the hazard of being appointed—and although many
objections were mentioned to Major M.–as it was an office of no
pecuniary responsibility, and nothing required of him but merely to
give his vote for the removal of the Seat of Government to this place,
which he solemnly pledged his honour to do. A Memorial was
drawn up with a pretty strong recommendation, to which a number
of names were obtained, every body being anxious that we should
have a full representation in the Council—This memorial was sent
on to the President—But, behold, the next day when the vessel was
under way for Pensacola, Major Murray instead of going on board
of her went on board a vessel for Baltimore, and his friends said he
was gone to Washington. The people here, as may naturally be
supposed were highly displeased with this conduct. There was,
however, no remedy—it was too late to apply for a commission for
another person—and thus, by the appointment of M* Gibson who is
somewhere in Georgia or Sº Carolina, and who will not go to Pensacola
and the appointment of two Spanish gentlemen here who have both
declined. East Florida will not have its just number of Counsellors—
and Pensacola will preponderate and give us the law, and keep the
Seat of government there.
From the conduct of Major Murray some idea may be formed of
his sense of propriety in public affairs. Every body was astonished
when Gov" Worthington appointed him a Judge—he had never
distinguished himself in any manner at the bar, nay, it was well
known that he was very little accustomed to the practice of the law
he had been in the Navy and in the Army “–There being, however,
no other lawyer on the Bench he became Chief Justice—but never
charged either the grand or petty Jury—and on All occasions showed
the most profound ignorance of the business of the Court. In fact
he was absolutely incompetent for the discharge of the duties of the
office. He resigned a short time before he projected the Jouney
to Pensacola.
While on the Bench, there were Several suits pending against one
John B Strong—a man here of notorious bad character—Strong
fearing that Judgments would be rendered ag" him, in order to cover
* Served as lieutenant in the U.S. Army during War of 1812. He was honorably
discharged June 15, 1815 (Heitman, comp., Hist. Reg. U. S. Army, I. 788).



462 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
his property from execution, made a Conveyance to Major Murray
of the Island of Key West which he pretended then to own, and also
of a very large tract of land at Cape Florida, and took Major Murray's
note for what he pretended was the consideration money—Murray
at this time knew of the suits pending against Strong, as they were
before his eyes every day in the Calendar of the Court—and Strong
told him the reason he wished to make the conveyance to him—
namely, to defeat the just claims of his Auditors—Murray while
chief Judge of the Court became a party to this fraudulent transac-
tion, so far as to become the nominal purchaser of these tracts of
lands for Strong has told several persons since his reasons for making
the sale to Murray. The causes, however, agº Strong were dismissed
from the docket, on the ground that under Gen' Jackson's ordinances,
the cause of action originating out of the County, the Court had no
Jurisdiction of the matter.—Strong then went to Charleston and sold
the island of Key West to Gen" Geddes and the other tract of land
to a Mº Delespine, without mentioning to them, at the time, a word
of the conveys to Major Murray—they however, afterwards found it
out, and demanded an explanation—he then confessed to them the
circumstance of the transaction and admitted that the conveyance
to Murray was only a cover to prevent his Creditors from seizing the
land, and promised to obtain a re-conveyance from Murray. This,
however, has not yet been done—and it is understood that Murray
means to insist on his title to Key West, if not to the other tract
conveyed to him by Strong—and it is now reported that he is actually
applying to be made Collector of that port of Entry and has great
expectations of obtaining the office. Of this gentleman's private
character, the writer of this letter knows very little; except what
these transactions indicate—That he is utterly incompetent to fill
such an office as that of Collector, must be allowed by all who know
him. He is a man of very idle habits, knows nothing of business—
and has no inclination for it—With regard to Key West it may be
well to mention that there is another claimant, whose title appears
to stand upon much better ground than either Strong's—Murray's,
or Genl Geddes—this is a Mº Simonton now at the Havana—he
purchased the island from Salas the grantee under the Spanish govern-
ment—took possession of it and made improvements thereon, long
before the Sale either to Murray or Geddes—and he has now actually
many people working on the island–Genl Geddes has also some people
there, and is going there himself—There is now a suit pending between
Geddes & Simonton respecting the title to the island—but it is said
that Major Murray intends to put in his claim to it—
The writer of this letter has no sort of ill will or animosity towards
Major Murray—but he thinks it a duty he owes to his Country to
state the facts mentioned herein, that the President may be on his



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 463
gaurd against the imposing recommendation already sent in favour
of that Gentleman for a very different situation from that which
it is understood he now solicits—All the facts in relation to these
fraudulent conveyances of Strong, have transpired Since the recom-
mendation was signed here. This communication it is hoped, will
be considered as confidential—
An Inhabitant of East Florida
[Addressed) THE HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Private
[Endorsed] M. Anonymous An Inhabitant of East Florida 18 June
1822 Recd 8th July. Remonstrates against the appt. of George
Murray, as Collector at Key West.
JOHN R. BELL TO THOMAS METCALFE *
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 1 sess.:ADS”)
[No date, 1822]
Indian Settlements in Florida.
1. Red Town, at Tampa Bay, number of souls unknown.
2. Oc-lock-o-na-Yahe, above Tampa Bay, a number of souls.
3. O-po-nays Town, back of Tampa Bay.
4. Tate-ta-la-hoats-ka, or water Melon Town on the sea coast west
side Tampa Bay, the greatest part of all these, fled from the Upper
Creeks when peace was given to that nation.
5. A-ha-pop-ka, situated back of the Musquito.
6. Low-Walla Village, composed of those who fled from the Coosa &
followed M*Queen & Francis their prophets.
7. Peter M*Queens Village East side Tampa Bay.
8. A-lach-a-way-talofa, in the Alachaway plains, a great many souls
Took-o-sa-moth-lay the Chief.
9. Santa-fee-talofa, East fork of Suwany, Lock-taw-me-coochy the
Chief.
10. Waw-ka-sau-sa, on the East side of the mouth of the Suwany on
the sea board, there are from the Coosa river followers of M*Queen &
Francis.
11. Old Suwany Town, burnt in 1818 on the Suwany river, these are
from the Tallapoosa Towns, & they are from the Upper Creeks.
12. A-la-pa-ha-talofa, West of Suwany & East of the Miccasukey,
13. Wa-cissa-talofa, at the head of the Sº Marks river, these are from
the Chatta-houchy upper Creeks.
14. Willa-noucha-talofa, Near the head of Sº Marks river, west of
Wa-cissa-talofa, Nations of Florida.
* A Representative in Congress from Kentucky.
* Printed also in H. Doc. 55, 17 Cong., 1 Sess.



464 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
15. Talla-hasse, on the waters of the Miccasuky pond—these have
lived there a long time have about 100 warriors and suppose 10 souls
to a warrier, say 1000 souls.
16. Top-ke-gal-ga, on the East side of the O-clock-ney, near to Talla-
hasse village.
17. We—then-cuchy-talofa, between the Sº Marks and O-clock-ney
rivers in the fork of the latter, very few of them are natives of the land.
18. O-cheese-ulga, East of the A-pa-lachicola, where Hambly and
Blunt lives, about 200 souls. Coth-rin, the Chief.
19. Cho-co-nick-la village, the chief is Nea-the-o-mot-la, the second
chief is Mulatto King, were raised there, have about 60 warriors, on
the West side of the Apalachicola.
20. Top-hul-ga; this village and Cho-co-nick-la join each other, raised
in East Florida and removed there.
21. Tock-ta-eth-la, West of Fort Scott & Chatta-houchy, ten miles
above the forks, 40 or 50 warriors, were raised at the O-con-cha-ta,
or Red Ground, and moved down.
22. Another Town in Florida Point called O-chee-fro-crassa, these
moved down from the Upper Creeks, about 30 warriors, and a great
many women children settled there.
The foregoing list of Indian settlements is extracted from a talk
held by Gen' And" Jackson Govt of the Floridas, with three chiefs
of the Florida Indians, viz.:-Blount, Nea-moth-la and Mulatto King,
at Pensacola 19” September 1821.
To the foregoing list may be added the following number of settle-
ments in East Florida, which are not included. viz:
23. Pe-lac-le-ka-ha, The present residence of the Chief of the Seminole
Nation, situatied about 100 miles south of Alachua, in the direction
of Tampa Bay.
24. Chu-ka-chatta, fifteen or 20 miles south of Pelaclekaha.
25. Hich-e-puc-sasse, about 20 miles south east of Chukachatta and
30 miles from Tampa Bay.
26. Ock-la-wa-haw, on the river of that name, which discharges into
St Johns
27. Mulatto Girls Town, South of Caskawilla Lake.
28. Bucker Womans Town near the Long swamp M*Kenzie chief
29. Big Hammock settlement, north of Tampa Bay & west of Chuka-
chatta is the most numerous of the Seminole settlements.
30. King Heijahs negro settlement, south of Alachua, and late Paynes
fields in Alachua, most of them Indian slaves.
The foregoing additional list, are Seminoles—
31. O-ke-fe-no-ke swamp a number of Cawetas.
32. Black Creek, there is a settlement of Chehaws.
33. Spring Garden above Lake George a number of Uchees.
34. West side of Cape Florida a settlement of Chactaws.



FLO RI D A T E R R I TOR Y 465
35. Alachua, west of Paynes Savanna, is John Hicks' Town of Mic-
casukeys, contains about 20 well constructed buildings.
The whole number of Indian population may be rated at not less
than five thousand souls, with about three hundred slaves, belonging
to the Seminoles. The Seminoles constitute about one third of the
whole population and claim the right of soil to all the country east
of a grant to Forbs & co, south of the Georgia Line, North & East of
the Gulf of Mexico, and West of a boundary line agreed upon between
the English and Indians at a Congress held at Picolata 18 Nov 1765.
and since recognized by the Spanish authorities.
The foregoing exhibit, is respectfully communicated, to shew the
dispersed state of the Indians in Florida; requiring some immediate
steps to be taken on the part of government, authorizing the collecting
or concentrating these scattered bands at some place suitable for them
to become cultivators and to extinguish their title to so much of their
country as may not be required for themselves as cultivators of the
soil, if it should be found, they possess the title—At present there is
no white settlements in East Florida within the Indian boundary,
and they will not permit any to be made, until they are brought
under the protection of the U. States—which they look to with great
solicitation, for that justice & liberality which the gov" has extended
to other Indian nations—In order to preserve a good understanding
with Indians in Florida, between them and the settlers about to re-
move in their country and to carry into effect the views & instructions
of the government of the United States relative to the Indians in
Florida—allow me to suggest, that an Agent should be authorized &
appointed for the Seminole & other nations of Indians in Florida,
and also a Sub-Agent for the same nation & Indians—
And, as the duties of this agency will be, among other things, to
collect together the scattered bands, to extinguish the Seminole title
to most of the lands, and to use, in the best possible manner, every
means that shall tend to make them cultivors assisted by their slaves—
it should be made independant of any other Agency or Superintendancy
that is or may be established, except the head of the War department,
or a branch of that dep“having the charge of Indians Affairs generally—
Most respectfully communicated & submitted, by Sir, your ob" sev"
JN° R. BELL
Actg. Agent for the Indians in Florida
HON” THOMAS METCALF House representatives U. States
301867–57–31






PART FOUR
Papers Relating to the First Administration of
Governor DuVal
1822–1825






PART FOUR
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM P. DUVAL AS GOVERNOR 1
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[April 17, 1822 *]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Patriotism Integrity and Abilities of WILLIAM P. DUVAL of Florida,
I have nominated and by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, do appoint him Governor in and over the Territory of Florida,”
and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of
that Office according to law; and to Have and to Hold the said Office
with all the powers, privileges and emoluments to the same of right
appertaining for the term of three years from the day of the date
hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being
should be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission.
1 Nominated Apr. 15, 1822, renominated Apr. 16, and confirmed Apr. 17
(Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 293, 294, 295). In the first instance DuVal was
named “Governor of the Floridas,” an error for “Governor of Florida Territory.”
* Several other recommendations for the appointment as Governor are on
file in NA (SD, Applications). A number were in support of William King,
lately a Colonel in the U. S. Army, who had served as civil and military governor
at Pensacola following Jackson's conquest of that place in 1818. Recommenda-
tions in King's favor include the following: William Crawford of St. Stephens,
Ala., to the Sec. of State, Oct. 27, 1821; two petitions, one signed by American
inhabitants of W. Fla. and the other by Spanish inhabitants, forwarded by
Jackson to the President, Nov. 30, 1821; an undated recommendation signed by
Col. Duncan L. Clinch, Maj. James E. Dinkins, and other officers of the fourth
infantry, and Surgeon Moses H. Elliott. Former Rep. Francis Preston (Va.)
recommended his brother, James P. Preston, late governor of Va., to the Presi-
dent, Dec. 19, 1821, and Rep. Robert Wright (Md.) wrote favoring the same
person, Mar. 26, 1822. Jacob Brown, Commanding General of the U. S. Army,
and Sen. James Lanman (Conn.) recommended Joseph L. Smith, of Conn., late
colonel in the U. S. Army, Feb. 12 and Mar. 29, 1822, respectively. The atten-
tion of the Sec. of State was called by Sen. Nathaniel Macon (N. C.) to the
recommendation of the previous session in support of John Branch, late governor
of N. C., Feb. 21, 1822. Concerning Branch, see also Memoirs of J. Q. Adams, V,
491, 494 (Apr. 16 and Apr. 19, 1822). James Strong, a former Representative
in Congress from N. Y., applied in person to the Sec. of State (ibid., pp. 455, 456–
457, Dec. 18 and Dec. 21, 1821).
* DuVal arrived in Pensacola and assumed his duties as Governor on June 20,
1822 (post, p. 475).
469



470 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Seventeenth day of April A.D. 1822;" and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Sixth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: LS)
PENSACOLA June 21** 1822.
HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
SIR, I have had the honour, of recieving thro' your department the
commission of J. C. Bronaugh & others, as members of the Legislative
Council for the Territory of Florida,” as also a letter from you of the
sixth of May last" informing me that the Laws of the United States
had been directed to me and sent on by the mail, as soon as they are
received it will be acknowledged.” But five members of the Legisla-
tive Council, have as yet, appeared so no business can be done until
a majority shall assemble. I fear that the Members from East
Florida will not attend; The compensation can be no Inducement. I
hope, however, the desire to render some service to Florida may
influence their attendance—The Legislative Council should have
assembled by the Law creating it * on the 10* Ins'. I wish you to
say whether the Council, under the Law, (when they shall meet)
can from that time continue in session two months or must the time
be calculated from the 2* Monday in June as fixed by Law? The
Government-house & the few public buildings, which belong to this
City are in possession of the Military. These are necessary for
Legislative, Executive & Judicial purposes otherwise, the expence of
the necessary buildings for these purposes must be incured—I think
it proper to state, that in my opinion the military ought not to be
stationed in the heart of this City—One company would be sufficient
for any purpose of the Government at this point, and that company
* This commission became effective on this date, but service under it did not
begin until June 20, which explains the present departure from the regular sequen-
tial arrangement of the papers. DuVal's first salary payment was for the period
Apr. 17–Oct. 17, 1822, in the sum of $1,250 (NA, GAO, Fifth Auditor's Rept.
No. 1229).
* Ante, p. 422.
* Not found.
* See post, p. 478.
* Ante, p. 389. Cf. post, p. 489.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 471
should be Subject to the orders and controle of the Governor, so that
he could at all times use them use them without application to the
commanding officer, to preserve the order & peace of the City—The
troops now occupy four buildings in the heart of the City—surely it
would be best for discipline of the army that the troops would be
removed from a City where they can so easily find means and oppor-
tunity to mingle in the dissipation common to all towns. The public
buildings in this City I hope will be given up for the use of the City &
Territory until Congress shall dispose of them otherwise—There are
no funds here to meet any of the expenditures of the Legislative
Council—to provide and furnish a house for their use—to pay for
printing the Laws and for the Stationary and Clerk hire &c.—I would be
glad to know if any provision was made to meet these expences, and
if so, how far I may be authorized to contract or make engagements
for these objects—It will readily occur to you Sir, That nearly one
year must elapse before a revenue to meet the local expences of the
Government here can be collected—In the mean time without some
advances from the General Government, serious inconvenience &
real evil must be the consequence—
I pray you Sir, to lay before the President this letter and to give
me such information & directions as he or you may deem advisable—
making them so specifick that I can avoid any errors which might
tend either to embarrass the Government, or myself"—
Your Obedient Servant
Wm. P. DUVAL
[Endorsed] Duval Govt Pensacola, 21 June 1822 Reca 17th. requests
Instructions upon various points.
t-
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., D 11:LS)
PENSACOLA June 21** 1822
HoNº" JoHN C. CALHOUN, Secretary at War
The Indians in the Territory of Florida are very uneasy. They
are not apprised who is their agent, and they are wandering over the
Country in every direction. They are in a wretched State, many of
them have lost their Crops this Season by the overflowing of the
Rivers & Creeks. As I am not advised of my powers & duties as
superintendant of Indian affairs, I should be thankful to recieve from
you such Instructions as you deem necessary—If the Indians come
to this place as, I expect they will on hearing of my arrival what Shall
I Say to them as to the Tract of Country it is probable they will
• Answered post, p. 510,



472 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
occupy and in what manner and to what amount are they to be
furnished with rations? for I am confident they are in a starving
condition—
The military at this place are in possession of all the public buildings
which are much wanted for the use of the City and Territory—I have
made no application to the commanding officer to give up any part
of the buildings; Because I do not like to incommode the Troops at
this Season of the year. I have, however, written to M' Adams" on
this Subject, and wish the order of the Government, to take possession
of the buildings which if obtained shall not be used hastily, so as to
occaison any dissatisfaction in the army—The troops except one
company ought not to remain in the heart of the City—if no other
reason existed for their removal than that the order and dicipline of
the Troops; can never in a City be preserved in the same degree that,
will be found in the same troops removed from its temptations &
pleasures.
If one company was kept in this City, Subject to the command of the
Governor to preserve its Order and Harmoney it would be Sufficient—
The remarks are not made, but with the view only to calling your
attention to this Subject. Individually no man in the nation feels
more respect, than myself for the Honor & Interest of the Army"—
Your obedient Servant
If you wish the troops still to occupy the Goverment House and
other buildings your order to the quartermaster here to rent a house
for Executive office and Legislative counsel will answer every purpose "
Your obnt Servº
Wm P. DUVAL
[Endorsed] An Inventory of the public buildings at Pensacola if
any was furnished by the Spanish authority to Gen' Jackson, has
not as yet reached us.-I was there in 1818, but do not at this time
know much in relation to them. There were then an old frame govern-
ment House as it was called, a range of old Barracks, and five or Six
Small block Houses, which latter constituted the defense of the place.
The Barracks have subsequently (last fall) been consumed by fire—
The troops are quartered in the block Houses and we rent quarters for
several officers—The residue of the officers perhaps occupy the build-
ings which Gov. DuVal refers to—Which they are, or how extensive,
I cannot say—He cannot, in speaking of the removal of the troops
have referencſ to the Block Houses I apprehend, for however favorable
their location, they cannot in my view be advantageously used for
civil purposes. In the absence of a plan of the place, shewing as well
10 Supra.
11 Answered post, p. 488.
* This paragraph is in DuVal's hand.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 473
the locality, as the number & description of the public Buildings, it is
impracticable to make any thing like a sensible distribution of them
among the civil & military departments—I would therefore respect-
fully suggest its delay til the necessary information can be obtained—
An officer of the 4 Reg" now at Baltimore can probably afford it—
if not it can in the course of two months be obtained from Pensacola.
T. Cross Duval, W. P. Pensacola 21 June, 1822 relative to the
public buildings
-
DUNCAN L. CLINCH TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
(Private) PENSACOLA 24* June 1822.
SIR, In addressing you on a subject that I conceive to be of Vital
importance, to the present tranquility prosperity & happiness, of this
interesting Section of our Country—which has been newly acquired
by, & will at no distant period of time, form the brightest epoch in
yours, or any other administration—I do so with confidence, knowing
that I am not only addressing the Chief Magistrate, of the freeest &
greatest republic on earth—but am addressing a man eminent for his
devotedness to true republican principle, the best interest of our happy
Country, & to the Constitution of the U. S. & at the same time, one
who is preeminently qualified, to give to that Ark of American liberty,
a fair clear & sound interpretation—Believing that the above remarks
will be a sufficient apoligy for obtruding myself on your time, I will
proceed to Submit to you, a few questions, which are likely to grow
out of the peculiar, & I might with truth say, distracted State of
things in this Territory—Have the officers & soldiers of the U. S.
Army, a right to vote in any State or Territory (other than the one
in which they originally resided or were enlisted) for a Representative,
or Delegate in Congress?—How far would the true interest of the
Service, & the Country justify a Commanding officer of a Reg" or Post,
in preventing his Camp or Garrison from becoming a scene of elec-
tioneering intrigue & disipation—At this time, there are nearly two
Regiments of U. S. Troops stationed in Florida—& you will readily
perceive that in a Territory as thinly settled as this is, that it will be
in the power of the Troops (if so disposed) to elect whom they please
as the Delegate to represent this Territory—But can a Deligate, so
elected, be said to represent the free & independent voters, & the
true interest of this Territory—The Common soldiers have no in-
terest in the soil, nor can they have any interest in the future advance-
ment, & prosperity of the Territory—for one week after the election
takes place, they may be ordered to N. York or to Green Bay—& of
course will feel no interest in the future destinies of the Section of
Country they have left.—I will state one case more—Suppose for



474 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
instance, the Soldiers were to take it into their heads, to elect one of
their most popular sergts, or privates, to represent this Territory as
Delegate in Congress—would this election disolve his engagement
with the U.S. or would he not subject himself to be tried & punished
as a deserter, were he to presume on his previledge as a Delegate, &
leave his camp, or Garrison, without permission.—Admit the principle,
that soldiers have the right of voting in whatever Territory they may
be stationed in, & a case similar to the one above stated may occur.—
I have been 14 years in the service of my Country, during which time,
I have never knowing or intentionally deviated from what I concieve
to be the true spirit & Meaing of the Constitution, or from the orders,
or views of the Executive of the U. S. & I hope you will do me the
justice to believe, that I am impell'd alone by Motives of the same
kind, in addressing you at this time.—Your attention to this subject,”
will be acknowledge by one who has the honor, to be Sir, with great
respect & esteem, your Most obt. & Most humble Servt.
D. L. CLINCH Col 4 Inft. Commanding
JAMES MONROUE President of the U. States.
[Endorsed] June 24, 1822 Col: Clinch—Recd. Aug" 10. I am in-
clined to think that the Gov' should be inform’d, that the troops
ought not to be permitted to vote J M-to the P. Clinch D. L. Pen-
sacola, 24 June 1822 Recd. 20th Aug". Impropriety of the U. States'
Soldiers being allowed to vote for a Delegate in Congress from Florida.
-
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO PETER PELHAM
[NA: OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 24 June 1822
CAPTAIN PETER PELHAM Sub. Agent I A. Sº Augustine. E Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 21** Ult” has been received.”
I regret very much the ill state of your health and cheerfully grant
the leave of absence which you request,” to enable you to take the
advice of the Physicians of Philadelphia.
You will make such arragements with Cap" Bell as may be neces-
sary for the transaction of all business relating to the Indians during
your absence, or until the arrival of Col Humphreys who has been
appointed the Indian Agent for Florida, of which Capt Bell has been
apprized.
18 No reply found. See post, p. 702, n.
14 NA (WD, SW Lets Recd., P 4).
is Captain Pelham never returned to duty as Indian subagent in Florida. He
subsequently was appointed sutler at Cantonment Brooke, and died there in
1826 (George M. Brooke to the Secretary of War, Aug. 12, 1826, NA, WD, AGO
Lets. Recd.). -



FLORIDA. T E R RITOR Y 475
You will advise the Governor of Florida of your intended absence
and of the arrangements which you make with Cap" Bell."
I have &c. J. C. C.
JAMES C. BRONAUGH 17 TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA: SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA 27* June 1822.
MY D* SIR, I take the liberty of enclosing you an account of M*
Peter Alba " who acted as translator and Interpreter to Col. Walton
from the time Gn' Jackson left this, until the arrival of Governor
Duvall on the 20° Inst: Mº Alba is one of the most respectable
Spaniards here and is perfectly well disposed towards the Government.
In making out his account, he has charged Three Dollars per day but
will be satisfied with any compensation which the Secretary may
think proper to allow him. He states that the duties which he had
to perform as translator and Interpreter interfered much with his
regular business, and that although he was not constantly engaged in
the performance of those duties, yet that he at all times held himself
in readiness to act when called upon. Col: Walton will explain to
you the extent of the duties which he rendered. As M*Alba is the only
one of the old Inhabitants, who has been employed by the Government
here, I think it will be good policy to make him a liberal allowance for
his services. You will confer a favor upon him by laying his account
before M*Adams and sending him addressed to this place a Draft for
the amount which he may allow—He will prefer a draft upon New
Orleans.
The Legislative Council has not yet proceeded to business, only five
members being present We have not heard a word from the other
eight, it is therefore uncertain when we shall form a quorum.
I am Dº Sir with gº respect yº friend & Ob' Sº
J. C. Bronaugh
COL: MAURY
[Endorsed] Bronaugh J. C. Pensacola 27* June 1822 Rec" 23 July
enclosing M* Alba's Acco"
1° See post, p. 495.
17 At this time a member of the Legislative Council.
18 Not found, but one record discloses payment to Alba in the amount of $765
($3.00 per day) for services as translator, interpreter, and private secretary to
Acting Governor Walton during the period Oct. 8, 1821–June 20, 1822 (NA, GAO,
Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 320, certified Dec. 31, 1822).



476 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ABRAHAM BELLAMY 19 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA: SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
June 29. 1822
JoHN Q. ADAMS Esq.
SIR. I enclose a Memorial of the People of St. Johns River,
desiring the Port of Entry at Jacksonville And by request, I take
leave to offer my reasons why it should be established at said place
I do so not because the Petition is not sufficiently explanetory of
the Situation & Condition of Jacksonville or that, this, would be an
additional recommendation but that you may not be deceived, by
information which you have or will soon receive, Since the within
has been in circulation, its understood, that you have made applica-
tion to Mr Rodmon of St. Augustine, for information, respecting the
most eligible place, he doubtless, has made application to a couple
of Gentlemen, who are guided alone by pecuniary motives in the
selection, for the place called the Bluff, which it is said they recom-
mend is as unsuitable, as a comparison between the places would be
ridiculous—True; its below Jacksonville, but Shipping will be forced
to remain in salt water, and the width of the river renders it extremely
unsafe, it is surrounded by extensive inaccessible Swamps & Country
so low on each Side of the river, that's impossible to have any other
communication to it, than by water, for half Century
Jacksonville is now in a flourishing Condition & you will observe
by the Petition that the people are unanimous in centering their
exertions, they therefore rationally expect, & confidently trust, (as
it will be the means of attaching some importance to the place that
you will contribute thus far to their & the public interest—The
central situation, the health & beauty of the place, the fertility of
the River, the facility of trade, Combine, in inducing them to beleive
that the period is not far distant, when a City shall arise to bedeck
our forest with beauty & Grandeur
Respectfully Your Most Obt Serv"
ABRAM BELLAMY
St Johns County St. Marys River
[Addressed] John Q. Adams Esquire Secretary of State Washington
[Postmarked] Jul 7 Free
1° Subsequently (1823) a member of the Legislative Council.



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 477
[Enclosure: DS)
Petition to the Secretary of State by Inhabitants of St. Johns River
15th June 1822
THE HONB” JoHN Q. ADAMs
SIR, We the undersigned inhabitants of St. Johns River, perceiving
by the Act of Congress 30" March,” a provision made for establishing
a port of Entry on Said River—Respectfully submit for your Con-
sideration Jacksonville as the Most eligable cituation, twenty Miles
from the Bar, on the North side of the River, Where the Public
road from Georgia to St. Augustine crosses, the only place now on the
River, that's in a flourishing condition, with this recommendation
we confidently trust in your better Judgment—
Abraham Bellamy
S. E. Buckles
J W Robarts,
Jno. R. Hogans
Daniel Kemp
Calvin Weatherby
Dempsey Bynom
Charles Ballard
Isaiah, D, Hart
Joseph Brown
Winson Davis
Isaac Tucker
Joseph Andrews
Francis Lee
Dan' Hogans
Hezekiah Tucker
John Ford
Henry Troutman
Dan' C, Hart
William Nelson
D. S. H. Miller
And" Mirick
Peter Bagly
Joseph Wilson
Manuell Checaco
William Evens
Rufus, R, Tucker
John Brady
James Brady
L, Z, Hogans—
Tho" Brown Jr.
James Rowse
Adam Wall
Martin Bronson
Charles Hogans
F: Richard
Humphry Leary
Benj Cozzens
Ja" M*Cormick
Ch** Meduke Deuer
William Munrow
James G, Smith
James Marshall
Wm. Black
Levi Sparkman
Ezekiel Smith
William Parker
J. D. Bludworth
John G, Rawls
Cyrus Briggs
James Dell
B M Dell
10 The act approved Mar. 30, 1822, entitled “An Act concerning the commerce
and navigation of Florida” (3 STAT. 660–661) contains no pertinent provision,
but the act approved May 7, 1822, section 1, provided for annexing the mainland
of Florida between the collection district of St. Marys in Georgia and the Nassau
River to that district, and section 6 provided for establishing ports of entry
within that portion of the territory (3 STAT. 684).



478 T E R R IT OR I. A L PA PER S
Simeson Dell Elias Kemp
John T. Lowe Patrick Price
Horatio Lowe Micajah Simmons
Enoch Daniel John Bellume
Wm Daniel Elijah Christie
Wiley Daniel John Moore
E Daniel Jun" Mich Andrew
Cha" Love Francis Andrew
Shadº Standly Peter Segee
Jesse Lain Minor Moore
Robert Hutchinson Jesse Youngblood
Matthew Philips Robt. Youngblood
Cotton Rowls Jun" Richard Mithel
John Price Daniel Scurry
SAMUEL FRY 21 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA June 29th 1822
HON. JOHN QADAMS, Secretary of State.
SIR, I have been advised by Col. Walton to forward to your Depart-
ment my account for services as Private Secretary in this province,
in order to its settlement & I have therefore the honour now to enclose
it together with the certificate of Col. W.
In affixing a price to my services I have been guided by that which
I am informed was allowed to Doct—Bronaugh and Capt Call for
similar and not more arduous services; I am conscious withal that I
accepted the appointment with the understanding that the President
would thereafter affix the compensation and I submit myself confi-
dently to his decision.”
I have the honour to be Your obedient humble servant
SAM! FRY
[Endorsed] Fry Samuel Pensacola 29* June 1822. Rec" 23° July
enclosing his acco"
-
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA June 30* 1822
SIR I have the honour to acknowledge the recipt from your de-
partment of six voll" of the Laws of the United States *
* At this time a member of the Legislative Council. Previously he had served
as private secretary to Act. Gov. Walton, of W. Fla. during the period Oct. 8,
1821–June 20, 1822, for which service he was paid the sum of $1280 (NA, GAO,
Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 1210 [1822]).
* See post, p. 514.
* See ante, p. 470.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 479
The members of the Legislative counsel from East Florida have not
yet been heard from there are but five members of the counsel here—
we do not know who our judge for the superior Court is. since we have
understood Mº Branch has declined the office—we all hope that
Henry M. Brackenridge will be appointed Our Judge, no man can be
found who is better quallify" and who would be so acceptable to the
People here * No society ever stood more in need of a court than ours
I do hope that some person will be sent here as early as possible to
discharge the duties of Judge—It seems that Congress has made no
provision for the Collector or surveyor of this port. that will keep them
from Starving—what provision can be made for the sick seamen who
come here? If the counsel should not meet, great confusion and dis-
satisfaction will prevail—much now exhists *
I am with sentiments of high respect and Esteem your Obt Sev"
Wm P. DUWAL
HoN' JoHN QUINCY ADAMS
[Addressed] Hon” John. Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
[Postmarked] Pensacola July 1. Free
[Endorsed] Duval W* P. Pensacola 30” June 1822 Rec" 23* July
The Legislative Council has not yet met—
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA July 1° 1822
SIR I enclose to you a memorial of three of the judges of the
County of Escambia, with the cirtificate of the Secretary. Col"
Walton, I have no personal knowledge of facts contained in the me-
morial But have no doubt from information they are correct It is
submitted to President of the United States, what ought to be the
compensation allowed to these Gentlemen "
Yours with high respect & esteem
Wm P. DUVAL
HON” JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Duval Govº Pensacola, 1 July 1822 Recd 25th. with a
memorial of Judges Shannon and others to the President.
* See ante, p. 451.
** Answered post, p. 510.
* No acknowledgment found.



480 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Enclosure:DS]
Memorial to the President from Escambia County Court Justices
[June 25, 1822]
To his Excellency James Monroe, President of the United States,
The Memorial of David Shannon, Presiding Judge, and John W.
Garnier, and E. B. Foster, Associate Justices of the County Court of
Escambia, in West Florida, respectfully represents:
That your Memorialists were appointed on the establishment of
the County Court by His Excel’ Governor Jackson, and have ever
since (now nearly ten months) continued to discharge the duties of
their respective Offices. That nearly the whole of the business of
the Court has devolved upon them, one of their Associates having
died shortly after his appointment, another having attended but
once or twice since his appointment, and the other, M. Cary Nicholas,
having been subsequently appointed, sat but two or three terms.
Your memorialists further represent, that all the judicial power of
the Province, excepting in small cases before justices of the Peace,
and in cases of appeal to the Governor, centered in the County
Court;-that this Court, which sat monthly, was generally engaged
from one to two weeks in hearing civil and criminal causes which
arose in the County, and in superintending all matters of police out
of the city; that the Presiding Justice was daily called upon to make
orders according to the Spanish practice in the commencement and
the progress of suits;–that there being no power in the Province to
levy a tax to support the necessary expences of the local government,
Your memorialists were allowed certain fees to be taxed in the causes
brought before them, but which have been found very inadequate to
compensate them for their services: the whole amount received by
the Presiding Judge being little more than one hundred Dollars, and
by each of the other memorialists not more than half that sum:—
that the discharge of these duties of primary importance in the
Province by the Memorialists has greatly interfered with their
private concerns, and caused them much personal inconvenience
and loss of time.
They therefore humbly hope that the President, taking their case
into consideration, will allow them a reasonable compensation, out
of the fund placed at his disposal in the act of the 3" of March 1821,
providing for the occupation and temporary government of the
Floridas—the services rendered by Your Memorialists having been
indispensably necessary to the good government of the same.
D. SHANNON.
JN° GARNIER
E. B. FOSTER
Pensacola June 25* 1822–



FL OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 481
The undersigned, members of the bar of Pensacola, beleive the
facts set forth in the foregoing memorial to be correct, and are of
opinion that the prayer is just and reasonable—
H: M. BRACKENRIDGE SAM! FRY
A. GORDON J. H. CHAPLIN
R. K. CALL. WA* L HANNUM
R. J. EASTER
Pensacola June 29* 1822–
The foregoing “Memorial” having been submitted to me, and
having given it the attention which it deserves, I am well satisfied
that it contains a true statement of facts, and in my opinion a reason-
able compensation ought to be allowed the memorialists—
GEO WALTON Secy of the Tery Florida
SECRETARY WALTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA July 7* 1822.
SIR/ I now forward in pursuance of your intimation,” the accounts
of my necessary expenditures while acting Governor of West Florida,
with such vouchers as I have been enabled to procure.
The enclosed letters of Col” Fenwick and Capt." Thornton are
intended as explanatory of the charge for house rent paid Antoine
Collins and Antonio Molino. This subject has been already explained
by me to the Department of State.
I have left blank the charge for extra services rendered, and ex-
penses incurred by me while Acting Governor of this Province. In
several of my letters to M' Adams, I have taken occasion to explain
myself on this subject.” I throw myself entirely upon the justice
and liberality of the President. When it is considered that my
situation of Acting Governor was materially different from that of
Secretary, I flatter myself that my claim will not be considered as
unreasonable. As Acting Governor I was unavoidably compelled to
see many strangers, and it was but decent, and proper, that some
civilities should be shewn them. My actual expenses were at least
treble what they would have been, had I continued to exercise only
the Office of Secretary. The expense of living is even greater here
than at New Orleans; and besides, the example of General Jackson,
who was remarkable for hospitality, rendered it almost impossible
for me to pursue a course entirely different, without giving offence,
and even without lessening the respect for the Station, at a period
when many circumstances combined to render it necessary that it
*7 Ante, p. 437.
* Cf. ante, p. 456.
301867—57—32



482 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
should be maintained. I have observed the strictest economy in
every thing which might become a charge on the Government; in-
stead of renting an Office distinct from the House in which I live,
I have made one of the rooms in it serve the purpose, not a little to
the inconvenience of my family.”
In addition to what I have just mentioned, I trust the President
will take into consideration the various and troublesome duties which
were devolved upon me, (according to the existing Spanish Laws and
usages) while in the exercise of the Government—Upon the whole I
feel confident the President will be of opinion that an allowance for
extra services, while exercising the Government, is but reasonable.”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully, Sir Your most Obdt
Serv't
GEO. WALTON
TO FONTAINE MAURY Esq. Department of State Washington.
[Enclosures:ALS)
Arthur W. Thornton to Secretary Walton
PENSACOLA 6* July 1822
SIR In compliance with your request, that I would state to you
the Amount that it would have cost the Government of the United
States to have Rented Quarters for the Officers and Troops of the
Army, who have been quartered in the House, and buildings attached
thereto—known as the Government House—in Pensacola: I state,
that to have Rented Quarters, for the Officers, the Non Com* Staff,
and Music of the 4* Regº Infº, who have been quartered in the
Buildings alluded to, at the rate which we have been compeled to pay
for the Rent of other Quarters for Officers who could not be accommo-
dated with Public Quarters, it would have cost the Government at a
moderate calculation, $80.00 per month.
We have occupied these Quarters, since the occupation of this
Post by our Troops in July 1821.
I am Sir With Great Respect your Obt: Servt:
A. W. THORNTON L'A. C. S. & A* Q' Mº
COL: GEORGE WALTON late—Act" Governor of West Florida)
[Addressed] Colonel George Walton late—Act" Governor of West
Florida
[Endorsed] George Waltons Letter & Accounts &c
** F. H. Nisbet, merchant of Philadelphia, was commissioned by Walton to
settle his accounts with the Department of State (Walton to Maury, July 16,
1822, NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
** Answered post, p. 514.



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 483
John R. Fenwick to Secretary Walton
PENSACOLA July 7* '22.
SIR Upon your Demand the Government House—in this City
would certainly have been given up to you, the Governor of the terri-
tory having authority to occupy it—
I am Sir with great Esteem & Respect Your obed"
JOHN R FENWICK Col. 4* arty
To COL. GEORGE WALTON
[Addressed] To. Col. George Walton
[Enclosure:ADS)
Bill Presented by Antonio Molino
The United States To Antonio Molino Dº
1822 July 1st To house rented to & occupied by Col. George Walton
from 1st day of December 1821 to this date @ $50 p month $350.-
I hereby certify that I did occupy the house charged for in the above
account, and for the time specified GEO WALTON
Received of George Walton Esquire the above sum of Three hundred
and fifty dollars, this 1* day of July 1822. For, & by absence of
Antonio Molino PETER ALBA (signed Duplicates)
-
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 8* July 1822–
SIR I take the liberty to inform you, that Mº Worthington leaves
this for the north on the 10° with the intention of remaining absent
until the middle of October, and in the mean time, transfers the public
property to the use and charge of James G Forbes Esqr. As M*
Worthington, avowes his intention, to apply for permission, to give
his bonds in Baltimore,” I would suggest to the consideration of the
Department, whether such permission would comport with his relative
connection to Individual Suitors. On this subject, this community
has cause to be very sensitive—
The Government House is, the only public building, adapted to the
accommodation of the Superior Court, and other public offices, and
this disposition of it is, the more important, as the inhabitants are
predisposed, to form their estimate of the value of public institutions,
by their ostensible respectability The Court, the Clerk of the same,
the Alcaldes Office and Jurors and witnesses could all be accommo-
dated—As in the event of the arrival of Judge Smith we shall want
31 As U.S. marshal.



484 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
some such situation, will you be pleased to present this subject for
the consideration of the President—
I have the honor to remain with much respect Your Ob H Ser"
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
THE HON JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secº of State
PS. As I shall remain here during the sickly season I should be
much gratified with a permission to occupy the front room of Govern-
ment House—
FONTAINE MAURY TO JAMES G. FORBES
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 10 July 1822
JAMES GRANT FORBES Esquire
SIR I have received your private Letter of the 4* Ult.* and com-
municated to the Secretary that part of it, which relates to your ac"
as Marshal of the Floridas who desires that you will send forward a
statement of your claim against Government for your Services as
such; which should commence on the 9" day of October, when your
Compensation as Agent &c to the Havanna ceased—The better way
will be to leave the charge for your services Blank, and give credit
for the amount of fees which you may have received from time to
time—M" George Murray and others have received compensation for
their Services as Municipal Officers, and it is understood that future
claims properly authenticated will also be paid on presentation at
this Department, for similar services”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and ob" Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Agº
NATHANIEL A. WARE AND SAMUEL R. OVERTON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA, July 14* 1822.
SIR, We have received our Commissions as Commissioners “for
ascertaining claims and titles to land within the territories of Florida”,”
of which you will receive this notification as an acceptance. Colo.
Preston has not yet reached Pensacola, nor have we received any
intelligence of him upon which we can predicate any confident calcula-
tions as to his arrival.” A Board has, however, been formed, and we
shall proceed on to-morrow in the execution of our duties.
** Not found.
* See post, p. 511.
* Ante, p. 428.
* See post, p. 514.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 485
For many documents which would have shed, it is presumed, much
light upon the claims submitted for adjudication, we feel ourselves
greatly at a loss. It is doubtful whether we shall be enabled to pro-
cure an authentic copy of the treaty between Spain and Great Britain
in '83, unless it should be exhibited by the claimants themselves.
There are no other means within our reach of obtaining the English
statutes making compensation to her citizens for lands, upon their
removal from this country, in consequence of a change of government.
Even a copy of the land laws, published by the authority of Congress,
have not yet been transmitted to us, nor have we received any assur-
ances that such will be the fact. In a territory so remote, and where
libraries are very limitted, we shall be necessarily subjected to great
difficulty in procuring those means of information, and in some cases,
it is to be feared, we shall not succeed at all.
Under such circumstances, we respectfully suggest to you the pro-
priety of having forwarded to the Commissioners all documents filed
in the different departments, touching the adjudication of land claims
in this territory, and which would afford any facilities in enabling us
to distinguish private property from that which rightfully belongs to
the United States. We have understood that there is a British plat
of the town of Pensacola in the Secretary of State's office, which it
might be of importance we should have in our possession; as also a
plan of St. Augustine, if to be found amongst the public archives.
Believing that most of the vouchers referred to are within the
controul of the Secretary of State, we have addressed you this com-
munication, submitting its propriety entirely to your determina-
tion.”—
We are very respectfully, Yº mo. obt. Serts.
NATH. A. WARE
SAM" R. OVERTON.
J. Q. ADAMS, Secretay of State.
[Addressed] Hon” John Q. Adams, Secretary of State, Washington
City. Mail. [Postmarked] Pensacola July 15. Free
[Endorsed] Ware, Nath' A. & Overton, Sam' R. Pensacola, 14 July
1822 Rec" 7 Aug" Have rec" their commissions—Documents wished
respecting Land Claims in Florida—Rec" 7 Aug"
-
JOHN RODMAN TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
Custom House ST AUGUSTINE 15* July 1822
SIR, In conformity with the 4* and 5* Sections of the Act of Con-
gress. of 24 March 1819,” I have now the honour to transmit here-
** No reply found. See post, p. 514.
*7 3 STAT. 488–489.



486 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
with enclosed, a list of all the passengers in vessels which arrived in
this District from foreign places, during the quarter ending the 30°
June last "
By the 4* Section of the act of congress of 20° April 1818,” rela-
tive to the publication of the Laws of the United States, I perceive
that each Collector of the Customs is entitled to one copy of the
Laws published at the close of each Session of Congress. I have also
understood, though I do not find that the act expressly authorises it,
that the Collectors have each received a copy of the Edition of the
Laws previously published by Bioren & Cº. Not having received
any of these publications of the Laws, since I have been in Office,
may I take the liberty to call your attention to the Subject, and to
beg you to give directions that they may be Sent to me?
With great respect I have the honour to be Sir, Your obedient
Servant
JOHN RODMAN Collector of St Augustine
[TH]E HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington.
P. S. I take the liberty to mention, with great respect, that Col.
Smith, appointed to the office of Judge of the Territorial Court here;"
and who was, by law, to open his Court on the first Monday of this
month, has not yet reached this place, and that information has
lately been received here, stating that he did not intend to come 'till
next Fall: This circumstance has occasioned very general dissatisfac-
tion in this Country. A Judge is indeed, much wanted here. The
County Court established by the ordinances of Governor Jackson,
has ceased to exist. There has been no Court held here for some time
past. Two of the County Judges have resigned and the other three
live at a considerable distance in the Country and do not intend to
hold any more Courts, having doubts as to their powers. Nor is
there any Marshall or Sheriff here. Mr Worthington, lately appointed
to the former office,” has] left this place, with his family, for Mary-
land, without having appointed any deputy—and the Sheriff” having
been appointed one of the Legislative Council has gone to Pensacola.”
with great respect—
J. RODMAN
* List not present.
89 3 STAT. 439–440.
40 Ante, p. 416.
* For East Florida; nominated Apr. 17 and confirmed May 3, 1822 (Senate,
Exec. Journal, III, 293,300). He did not serve. He was subsequently nominated
and confirmed as land commissioner (1824), but declined the appointment. See
post, p. 506, and post, p. 639.
* James R. Hanham. Cf. list of officials in St. Johns County, ante, p. 355.
* Reply, if any, not found,



FLORIDA. T. E. R. R. I TOR Y 487.
[Addressed] The Hon” John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington
[Endorsed] Rodman J. St. Augustine, 15 July 1822. Recd 3rd
Augt. Copy of the Laws.
POST ROUTE ADVERTISEMENT
[PO:Proposals for Mail Contracts, 1816–1823 “]
[July 16, 1822)
Proposals For carrying Mails of the United States on the following
Post Roads will be received at the General Post-Office, in the City
of Washington, until the 12th day of October next, inclusive.
IN FLORIDA.45
365. From Road Forks, township 2, range 5, to Pensacola, 80 miles,
once a week. Leave Road Forks every Monday at 1 p m and arrive
at Pensacola on Wednesday by 10 a m. Leave Pensacola every
Wednesday at 2 p m and arrive at Road Forks on Friday by 11 a m.
366. From Pensacola, by St. Marks, Volusia and Picolatta, to St.
Augustine, once a month, 460 miles. Leave Pensacola on the first
Wednesday in each month, at 2 p m and arrive at St. Augustine in 14
days on Wednesday by 10 a m. Leave St. Augustine same day at
2 p m and arrive at Pensacola in 14 days, on Wednesday by 10 a m.”
367. From Jefferson, G. by Colerain and Cowford to St. Augustine,
97 miles, once a week. Leave Jefferson every Tuesday at 5 a m and
arrive at St. Augustine on Thursday by 10 a m. Leave St. Augustine
every Thursday at 2pm and arrive at Jefferson on Saturday by 6 p.m.
367. From Pensacola, to Fort Hawkins, G. once a month. Leave
Fort Hawkins the first Wednesday in each month at 6 a m and arrive
at Pensacola in 11 days, on Saturday by 5 p.m. Leave Pensacola the
next day at 8 a m and arrive at Fort Hawkins in 11 days, on Wednes-
day by 6 p.m.” -
* This is a compilation of printed advertisements which were published in
newspapers for the purpose of securing proposals.
* An act approved May 8, 1822 (3 STAT. 702–707), authorized the establish-
ment of the post roads described above. The same act also authorized a post
road between New Orleans and Pensacola. -
* The route described in No. 366 was discontinued by an act approved Mar. 3,
1823, and another substituted therefor as follows: “From Pensacola, Preolata
[Picolata], on the river St. John's, to St. Augustine, the most convenient and
practicable route in the discretion of the Postmaster General” (3 STAT. 765, 767).
47 In the list of contracts made by the Postmaster General for the year 1822,
and submitted to Congress Mar. 1, 1823 (H. Doc. 104, 17 Cong., 2 sess.), only
one is mentioned for the interior of Florida Territory: “St. Mary's and St. Augus-
tine” awarded to John Floyd for the period Jan. 1, 1823–Dec. 1826, at $1,040 per
annurn.



488 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR July 17* 1822.
HIS EXCY WILLIAM P. DUVALL Gov of Florida Pensacola
SIR, I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 21* ulto;”
and in reply to that part, which relates to the distribution of the
publick buildings at Pensacola among the Civil and Military, I have
to remark, that not having received an Official Inventory of those
buildings as handed over by the Spanish authorities, it is impracticable
for the Government to direct a particular division of them between
the two Departments of Service. Relying therefore on your friendly
disposition towards the Army, and believing that you will require such
buildings only, as are indispensable for, and will best answer civil
purposes, I have instructed the commanding Officer of the troops,
Col. Clinch to arrange such a division with you as will be satisfactory.
I enclose a copy of my letter to Col. Clinch.
In relation to that part of your letter requesting instructions
relative to your “powers and duties as Superintendent of Indian
Affairs” I must refer you to my letter of the 11” ultimo,” which it is
presumed you have received before this time. As it relates to the loca-
tion of the Indians, it is the intention of the Department to locate
them in the fall in some favorable position in the Northern part of
East Florida near the Appalachacola. The enclosed copy of a letter
to Captain Morris of the 28* May last " in relation to the issue of
rations will give you the views of the Department on that subject.
Copies of the instructions to your predecessor relative to Indian
Affairs will be transmitted to you as soon as they can be made out.
I had supposed they had been passed over to you, or they would have
been transmitted with my letter of the 11” Ultimo.”
J. C. C.
=-
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DUNCAN L. CLINCH
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR July 17* 1822
COL D. L. CLINCH U. S. Army Pensacola
SIR, The Executive of Florida has represented the necessity of some
of the publich buildings at Pensacola being appropriated to Civil pur-
poses, and has applied for a division of them between the Civil and
** Ante, p. 471.
** Ante, p. 452.
50 NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E). The rations issued were not to exceed
$200 per month and were to be stopped as soon as the season permitted.
* See post, p. 501. Copies of this letter and of the following one to Clinch
were transmitted by the Secretary of War to the Secretary of State, July 17
(NA, WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 11).



FLORI D A T E R R I TO R Y 489
Military Departments. Not having an Inventory of those buildings as
received from the Spanish authorities, a particular division of them
cannot be directed by the Department. I have therefore requested
the Governor to confer with you on the subject, and you will surrender
to him such buildings as are not clearly military as he may think
necessary for the Civil Department. If it should be necessary to rent
additional buildings in consequence of this order, the Quarter Master
will receive the necessary directions from the proper Dept.”
J.C.C.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]
PENSACOLA July 17* 1822.
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Commission
to Greenberry Gaither * and George Murray * Esqr"—Mess' Law,
Reynolds, Hanham and Gaither, sailed from St Augustine about 59
days since for this port.” Ten days ago they were hailed by the
Brig Hero off this port, but before they could pass the bar, a violent
storm arose, which lasted three days—several vessels have been
wrecked on Horn Island, off Mobile Point, whose crews and passengers
were saved—The Lady Washington, the Sloop in which the gentlemen
of the Counsel sailed, has never been heard of since. I have but
little doubt the Sloop and every soul perished—I have lost a brother-
in-law M*. Hynes * who was also a passenger, if the vessel has found-
ered. This will be a serious misfortune to our Territory, To this
circumstance, we have not been able to form a Quorum to do business.
Mº Henry M. Brackenridge, having accepted the Office of Judge
under the United States,” has resigned his seat in the Council, as well
as Mr Joseph M. White,” who is appointed Secretary to the board of
Commissioners, two of whom are now doing business here. In the
* Lt. Arthur W. Thornton, the quartermaster officer at Pensacola, was in-
formed of the substance of this letter on July 10 (NA, WD, QMG Lets. Sent,
Bk. 4).
* See ante, p. 448, n.
* See ante, p. 449, n.
* Cf. ante, p. 470.
** Alfred W. Hynes was paid the sum of $178.50 for his services as secretary
to Acting Governor Worthington for the period Feb. 1–May 30, 1822 (NA, GAO,
Fifth Auditor's Rept. No. 2, p. 449, certified Aug. 23, 1823). He had been
formally appointed by Worthington in a letter to Hynes, Mar. 15, 1822 (NA, SD,
Misc. Lets.). He was subsequently employed by the Governor in Pensacola as
clerk. See also post, p. 566.
*7 Ante, p. 451.
* White was persuaded to retain his seat until the session of the Council was
over when the Governor communicated his resignation to the Secretary of State,
Sept. 23, 1822 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).



490 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
place of these Gentlemen, I recommend Mess” John de la Rua and
Joseph Noriega,” two of the Spanish inhabitants of this place, who
are men of information and integrity, and are looked up to by the
Spanish population as their first men here. Judge Brackenridge,
D" Bronaugh, Mº Walton the Secretary and myself all concur in
wishing them to be appointed of the Council. This would have an
excellent effect in attaching the Spanish inhabitants to our Govern-
ment; I have found those people much more orderly than the Ameri-
cans who are here, and I do not believe I ever have seen a more moral
or better people, they can be easily governed, if treated with kindness
and confidence. If the President and yourself will second me in my
efforts, I think you will soon see a happy union among the People of
Florida.
As it is the general impression that our Members of the Council
from East Florida are lost, would it not be best to send on a Com-
mission appointing others, which should be void in the event of their
arrival here.
I have not heard one word of Mess” Gibson, Macon, or Lytle—
great inconvenience is felt here for want of the Council. There are
but three of the Council now here, & seven are required to make a
majority.”
Yours with high respect & Esteem.
Wm P. DUVAL
HON” J. Q. ADAMS Washington
Should the President think proper to send on a commission, for
other gentlemen as counselers—I recommend Green, B. L. Bush,
William Davidson W* D. Simmes & Henry Wilson W” P. DuVal
* Commissions as members of the Legislative Council for these two men were
signed on Aug. 20, 1822 (NA, SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.). They were nomi-
nated Dec. 23, 1822, and confirmed Jan. 31, 1823 for the remainder of the term
ending May 4, 1823 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 314, 329). See post, p. 510.
60 The Legislative Council convened at Pensacola on July 22, 1822 with the
following members present: James C. Bronaugh, Richard K. Call, Greenberry
Gaither, James R. Hanham, Edmund Law, John Miller, George Murray, and
William Reynolds. After the election of Dr. Bronaugh, as president, and of
other officers, Gov. DuVal presented an address in which he urged as subjects
for legislation the establishment of inferior courts with judicial and adminis-
trative powers, the preparation of a civil code with the common law as a basis
and the enactment of taxes to raise revenue for the execution of local laws (Pen-
sacola Floridian, July 27, 1822; Niles’ Reg., xxiii, 23–24, reprinted in Fla. Hist.
Quar., x1, 184–189). The journal of proceedings of the Legislative Council
from its first session in 1822 is available in either manuscript, newspaper, or
pamphlet form (the last from 1829), and using all of these sources, the Library
of Congress has assembled a collection on microfilm (LC, Guide to Microfilm
Coll., pp. 38–40; see also Fla. Hist. Quar., xxi, 365–366; Thomas, “Report on the
Pub. Arch. of Fla.,” Amer. Hist. Asso., Ann. Rept., 1906, II, 157). The Library
of Congress also has an assemblage of the annual messages of the governors
(LC, Guide to Microfilm Coll., 38–40).



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 491
If the Post master at Millageville was directed to send on the com-
mission by an express—it would reach this place 10 days sooner than
by the mail.
[Addressed] Hon” John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washing-
ton City Favd by Mr. Smith
[Endorsed] Duval Govº Pensacola 17 July 1822 Recd 17th. State
of things at Pensacola &c. Comms to be made out for the two
Spaniards.”
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Recd., D 22:LS)
(Duplicate) PENSACOLA 18 July 1822.
SIR. I had the honor of receiving by the last mail your letter of
instructions on Indian Affairs, dated the 11* day of June last,”
together with the several Acts of Congress for the regulation of trade
and intercourse with the Indian tribes. I shall be careful in not
exceeding in manner the expenses set apart by you for the Florida
Indians, and in all cases, shall submit to your directions, without
pretending to judge of the effects they may produce. The Indian
Agent has not yet reported himself. It is desirable he should be
among the Indians with as little delay as possible—The Indians in
Florida are in a wretched state, not Knowing what part of the Country
will be claimed by the United States, or what section they will ulti-
mately be allowed to occupy. The Indians raised little er Hething
during the last year and I fear they will raise for their subsistence still
less the present Season. Such is their distress that they have dug
up miles of the Country in order to procure the brier root to subsist
on. If the Government intend to give them any support in their
present distressed situation, the amount allowed to be distributed in
rations, will amount to very little.
It is important to locate the Indians speedily, whether we regard
their comfort and happiness—or the interests of the United States—
The various claims of individuals to grants of Land in almost every
part of Florida, Keeps the Indians in continual alarm—The settlers
are crowding in their claims to the lands promiscuously, and fixing
their habitations where they choose; I Know the people may be
removed by Military force but until some tract of Country is allotted
to the Indians, to remove them they must be driven out of the
Territory.
The sooner Gen' Jackson's talk" with them can be carried into
effect by the Government, the better—and I cannot forbear urging
* Answered post, p. 510.
* Ante, p. 452.
* Printed, Bassett (ed.), Corr. Jackson, III, 118–126.



492 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
this measure as one of vital importance to the interests of Florida.
I will thank you to transmit to me the documents laid before
Congress at the Session, containing the accounts and settlements of
the several Superintendants and Indian Agents with your department.
If the Military force in Florida were employed in opening a road
from this place to St Augustine, it would be of great importance; in
case of war, it would be absolutely necessary.”
With sentiments of high respect. Yr Obd’t Serv't.
Wm P. DUVAL.
HoN” JoHN C. CALHOUN. Secretary at War
[Endorsed] Duval. W. P. Pensacola, 18 July, 1822 relative to the
State of the Indians in Florida—recommends enforcing G" Jackson's
talk—requests some Documents—Suggests employing the Mily in
opening a road from Pensacola to S' Augustine
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA: JD, Opins. Atty. Gen., Bk. B 93)
N* 238. Grants of Lands in Florida by the King of Spain
Office of the Attorney Gen' of the U. States July 19–1822
SIR. My answer to your communication of the 3* * has been
delayed by absence from the city, to which I have just returned.
Doctor England states the law correctly. There can be no doubt
of the power of the King of Spain to grant lands in Florida while the
Province was his; nor of the capacity of the Roman Catholic Church
to take by grant. Our treaty with Spain recognizes and ratifies all
such grants made prior to a certain day.
The only question in this case is a question of fact. Did the King
of Spain grant these lands to the Roman Catholic Church prior to
the time stipulated? on this, which is the only question in the case,
there is no evidence before me. If it is intended that I am to take
Doctor England's statement of facts as correct, I am of the opinion
that he is right in his conclusions of law: if otherwise, it will be neces-
sary that I shall be furnished with a report of the facts, which, I
presume, the attorney for the U. S. for the territory of Florida can
readily furnish; or the whole subject can be remitted to that officer"
for his opinion, which, I would respectfully submit, is the better course,
because the evidence is more easily accessible to him, and because
the archives of that province will give him a better understanding
* Answered post, p. 508.
95 Printed also in Opinions Attys. Geml., I, 563–564; Gen. Pub. Acts . . . Instrs.
. . and Opinions Attys. Geml. (Washington, 1838), II, 161.
* NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xix), transmitting Bishop England's letter of June 17,
1822 (ante, p. 458) and requesting an opinion.
* See the Secretary of State to Hamilton, July 25, 1822 (post, p. 498).



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 493
of the characters of spanish grants and the laws by which they were
regulated than we can possess here.
I remain, Sir, &" &" & & W W.
JOHN Q. ADAMS Esq.r Department of State.
THE ACTING QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO ARTHUR
W. THORNTON
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 4]
- July 19th 1822
L' A. W. THORNTON Post Q' Mº Pensacola
SIR: The Secretary of War has directed Colº Clinch, to surrender
to the Executive of Florida, such of the public buildings at Pensacola—
not purely military—as may be deemed indespensable for civil
purposes. Should it become necessary in consequence, to rent quar-
ters for officers who may be obliged to remove, you will be governed
by the instructions contained in a letter from this office of the 1st
June last "-especially the latter part of it.”
I am Sir &"
T. CROSS A. Q. M.
-3
DAVID SHANNON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
PENSACOLA July 22nd 1822.
THE HON. JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State—
SIR, Some time since a memorial was forwarded to the President
by myself as Presiding Justice of Escambia County, and John Garnier
and E. B. Foster associate Justices, praying for some compensation
for our Judicial labours”—Since which time I have understood from
Mr. Murry,” who has just arrived here from Washington, that five
dollars per day have been allowed him as Presiding Justice of St.
John's county. For the purpose of enabling the President to fix my
compensation, I take the liberty of stating that I received my com-
mission from Governor Jackson on the 24th day of July 1821, and
have Continued in the exercise of the duties of my office ever since.”
Tº NAWD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 4), instructing that rent should not exceed
$12 per month per room, and that it would be proper to take a whole building
in which quarters could be allotted to officers according to rank and allowances.
• * Lieutenant Thornton replied on Aug. 18, 1822 (NA, WD, QMG Lets. Recd.),
referring to his letter of Aug. 4, in which he had stated that Colonel Clinch had
ordered him to rent a house for the Executive Council (original letter missing;
abstract in NA, WD, QMG, Reg. Lets. Recd.).
70 Ante, p. 480.
7. George Murray, recently commissioned a member of the Legislative Council
(ante, p. 449).
”An account by Judge Shannon of the administration of justice by the Es-
cambia County Court is found in the Pensacola Floridian, May 12, 1822.



494 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
On the arrival of Governor Duval I waited upon him and tendered
my resignation, but at his earnest solicitation, and to prevent the con-
fusion which might have been produced by the want of a judicial tribu-
nal in the country, I agreed to continue until the legislature should act
upon the subject, or until the arrival of the United States Judge. The
legislature have not yet met, but will do so in a few days when a re-
organization of the County Court will take place.
The duties enjoined by the ordinance of Governor Jackson * have
required my constant and undivided attention. The mode of pro-
ceeding by concilliation which took place before me as presiding justice
out of court was preserved.” It was also my duty at all times, to
make all orders which might be required at the commencement and
in the progress of any suit. Hence I was always liable, and was almost
daily called on, to hear parties and make such orders as might be re-
quired in the progress of causes. The duies of the associate Justices
were confined to the time when the Court was actually in session,
which upon reference to the record I find to be fifty seven days.
When the President takes into consideration the critical period at
which I entered upon the duties of my office, and the great labour and
responsibility attending the discharge of those duties, the sacrifices
which I have made and the privations which I have endured, in in-
deavouring to sustain the character of the Judiciary, I feel the utmost
confidence that in fixing my compensation, he will do me ample jus-
tice. I have the vanity to believe that my exertions to maintain the
character of the Court, and to preserve good order in the Province,
have not been altogether fruitless, and that the part which I have
acted has not been less useful to the Territory, or creditable to myself,
than that pursued by Judge Fromentin; and yet he has been in the
receipt of a respectable salary, while I have received little or nothing.
The President need not be alarmed at my claim, as I know of none
other in this Territory which can come against the government, ex-
cepting a small one of the county attorney. Our county expenses
have been small, and defrayed by fines and forfeitures—a tax on
original process, and on licenses to retail spiritous liquors, which was
usual under the Spanish Government.
I have been thus particular in explaining the grounds and enforcing
the justice of my Claim, because I have more than once before applied
and received no answer.
7s “An ordinance explanatory of the mode of proceeding in the county courts,”
instituted at Pensacola, July 26, 1821, printed, A.S.P., Misc., II, 907–908.
7" Referring to section 12 of the ordinance in question, which reads as follows:
“The usual acts of conciliation, orders, and decrees, according to the Spanish
practice at the commencement and in the progress of every suit, may be made
by the presiding justice; but the trial and final judgment shall, in all cases, be
pronounced in open court.” Section 13 of the same ordinance prescribes the fees
to be received by various officers, clerks, translators, interpreters, et cetera.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 495
I have the honor to be Your ob" Servt.
D SHANNON.
[Endorsed] Shannon W. Pensacola, 22 July 1822 Recd 14th Augt.
His claim for services as Judge in Florida, 114 days at $5. $570.
Allowed days 114 at 5 Dollars a day—$570—"
ABRAHAM EUSTIS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., E 18:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE, 23* July 1822–
SIR-I have the honor to submit to you copies of a communication
addressed to me by Capt. Pelham. Sub-agent of Indian affairs, & of
my reply to it.—In consenting to charge myself with the temporary
direction of the affairs of the Indians in this neighbourhood, I have
been influenced solely by a desire to relieve Capt. Pelham from the
anxiety of a vexatious business, to which his infirm health is wholly
incompetent. He informs me that he has never received one line of
instructions for his guidance either from your Department, or from
Mr Worthington the late acting Superintendent of Indian Affairs.-
Capt. Bell, whom I have consulted, & who not long since was charged
with the direction of the Florida-Indians, is also unable to give me
any positive information of the views & wishes of the government
respecting these concerns. At present considerable anxiety exists
among the white people, who are desirous either to trade with the
Indians, or to establish plantations on the Spanish Grants in the in-
terior part of the Country. Some little fermentation has also been
excited among the Indians. Several white persons have already
applied to me to grant them passports to proceed to the Indian settle-
ments on different pretexts. I have however declined any interference
on these points, until I receive instructions on the subject—From the
best information I can obtain there is not at this time a single licensed
trader in East Florida, & in consequence, many of the Indians are
compelled to bring their skins, & other articles of trade to this place;
& here they are abundantly supplied with spirituous liquor. For
there is no municipal regulation to prohibit it, &, even if there were,
the civil authorities of this City lack the power to enforce it. The
magistrates have already twice, within few weeks, required the aid
of the military force to enable their Constables to arrest single indi-
viduals. I have been informed that an unlicensed trader, by the name
of Craig, has established himself on M"Hardy's tº plantation at
* Information regarding this allowance was communicated to Shannon on Aug.
24, 1822 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets. xix). Shannon died early in September, 1822.
See post, p. 532, n.
7" Robert McHardy (H.R.S., Fla., Spanish Land Grants, iv, 101–102).



496 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Tomoca," (Where he has collected a considerable number of Indians)
& that his whole stock in trade consists of Tobacco & Rum.
Under these circumstances I have considered it my duty to solicit
of you, as early as possible, definite answers to the subjoined queries.
Perhaps I ought rather to have submitted these questions to Governor
DuVal, the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, But we have not been
informed of his arrival at Pensacola, & the circuitous route of the mail
would prevent a reply being received from him, even if he be there, in
less than two months. In order therefore to relieve the extreme
impatience of those, who are interested in the decision on these
questions, I seek their solution at the source of information.
1* Qu. Do the laws of the U. S. regulating trade & intercourse with
the Indians apply with full force to the territory of Florida? If yea,
what portion of the territory is to be considered “Indian Country”
within the purview of the laws?
2* Is any person, save the Superintendent, & the Agent of Indian
affairs, duly appointed, authorized to grant licences to trade, or pass-
ports to go to the Indian settlements?
3* Are the Spanish & other foreign inhabitants of this territory to
be considered, as “citizens of the U.S.” de facto by merely taking the
oath of allegiance; or must they undergo the probation prescribed by
the naturalization law?
4* Are settlers to be permitted to establish themselves under colour
of Spanish Grants, within the Indian Boundary, as said to have been
recognized by the British & Spanish Authorities in Florida? If so,
how far may they be permitted to buy & sell with the Indians without
license? The settlements at Alachua,” Volusia,” Hope-Hill” &c. &c
are within this boundary.
5* In the event of white people committing offences, or becoming
mischievous & troublesome in the Indian-country, can they be re-
moved, & by what process?
6* Can the Florida Indians be permitted to sell their Horses Cattle
& Negroes? If yea, under what restrictions?—
7* Contracts are said to have been made with the Indians, before
the cession of the territory, for the purchase of negroes, which have
not yet been paid for, or delivered—Can these alledged contracts now
be completed?
8* If an Indian Boundary be recognized in Florida, may the Indi-
ans be restrained from passing it, & in case of violation by an Indian,
how is he to be punished?
77 East of St. Johns River, in Volusia County.
78 In the present Alachua County.
7° The most southerly settlement on the St. Johns, near the head of Lake
George.
80 Located on St. Johns River.



FLO RI D A T E R R ITO R Y 497
9* In case it should be necessary to hold intercourse with the Indians
or to send a messenger to their habitations, how is the expense of
the interpreter, or messenger to be defrayed?
10* Under what circumstances, & to what amount are rations to be
issued to the Indians? "
I am with most perfect respect your very humble serv"
ABR" EUSTIS
HON−J—C—CALHOUN–
[Addressed] Hon. J–C–Calhoun Secretary of War—Washington
[Endorsed] Eustis. A. &c S" Augustine 23 July, 1822 relative to tak-
ing charge of Ind" Affairs, during Capt" Pelhams absence. Solicits
instructions.
|Enclosures]
Peter Pelham to Abraham Eustis
Copy— ST AUGUSTINE, 19" July 1822
SIR-I have the honor to lay before you a copy of a letter from the
War Dept,” in which I am directed to make such arrangements with
Capt. Bell as may be necessary for the transaction of all business re-
lating to the Indians, during my absence, or until the arrival of Col.
Humphreys, who has been appointed Indian Agent for Florida.”
Capt. Bell has declined this arrangement, & has stated his reasons to
the Secretary of War.”
You, Sir, were pleased a short time since to express your willingness
to transact such business as might become necessary in relation to the
Indians during my contemplated absence. And being now on the
point of sailing for Charleston, I beg your permission to transfer to
your direction such duties in relation to the Indians as have been in
my charge.
The infirm state of my health prevents my waiting upon you in
person, but am ready to furnish you with any information I possess on
this subject.
I would however beg leave to remark that Cap" Bell has collected
more facts, & is probably much better informed as to the State of
Indian Affairs in Florida than myself.
I have the honor to be with perfect respect your ob' Serv"
(Signed) P. PELHAM Sub Agent &c &c
COLONEL EUSTIs U S Army Commanding &c &"
si Answered post, p. 512.
* Ante, p. 474.
* Ante, p. 429.
* Cf. ante, p. 450.
301867–57–88



498 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Abraham Eustis to Peter Pelham
Copy— ST AUGUSTINE, 21* July—1822–
DEAR SIR-I acknowledge your letter of the 19* inst. covering a
copy of a communication to you from the War Department, &
requesting me to take the direction of the affairs of the Indians, during
your contemplated absence, or until the arrival of Col. Humphreys.
It would have been more satisfactory to me, if, according to the ap-
parent intention of the Secº of War, Capt. Bell could have been induced
to take charge of these concerns. But as he has declined doing so, I
can have no hesitation in entering into any arrangement, which will
relieve you from the burden of business, & enable you to leave this
place & seek the restoration of your health.
I therefore cheerfully comply with your request that I will take
charge of the Indian-affairs in this neighbourhood, in the hope &
expectation that very little, if any, positive interference will be found
necessary.**
I pray you to accept the assurance &c &c
ABrm EUSTIS
CAPT. PELHAM—Sub-Agent &c. &c.—
[Endorsed] Copies—Capt. Pelham to L* Col Eustis—& Reply.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xix)
Department of State WASHINGTON 25 July 1822
ALEXANDER HAMILTON Esquire Attorney of the United States For
East Florida.
SIR. Herewith you will receive the copy of a Letter from the Roman
Catholic Bishop of Charleston,” to the President of the United States,
together with a copy of the opinion of the Attorney General,” to whom
Bishop Englands Letter was referred, by direction of the President,
in relation to certain property in East Florida, which is Stated to
have been given by the Spanish Government for the use of the Roman
Catholick population of Sº Augustine—If the facts in the case be
correctly stated in Bishop England's Letter, it is the Attorney Gen-
erals opinion, that the property in question belongs to the Roman
Catholic Congregation at S*Augustine; and it is very desirable that
the use of it should be effectually secured to them.* I am Sir. respect-
fully your most ob" Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
85 Cf. post, p. 547.
*"Ante, p. 458.
87Amte, p. 492.
* See post, p. 501. By an act approved Feb. 8, 1827, the Roman Catholic con-
gregation of St. Augustine was confirmed in possession of the parochial church
and burying ground (4 STAT. 202). A restatement of this confirmation appears
in the act approved June 28, 1832 (4 StAt. 550–551).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 499
SECRETARY WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA July 27* 1822
SIR, M. John Copinger Connor who has discharged the laborious
duties of Clerk of the Executive Court, has requested me to represent
his case to the President. I fear I have already been extremely
troublesome and I assure you this will be the last claim I shall for-
ward to the Department M* Connor is a meritorious young man, who
has been extremely useful both to General Jackson and myself, being
an excellent Clerk, his services were put in requisition on numerous
occasions where he could not be compensated as Clerk of the Executive
Court
Up to the period when he was appointed Clerk of the Executive
Court by General Jackson M* Connor was allowed three dollars per
day. From that time his services were almost continually required
as a Coppying & extra Clerk, his duties as Clerk of the Executive
Court, were extremely arduous. The whole amount he has received
since his appointment has been about two hundred dollars for the
services of about ten months, say from the 28* Aug" 1821 to the 20°
June 1822. I merely state the facts of the Case for the Consideration
of the President; and have done so with great reluctance from unwill-
ingness to incourage any further claim against Government from this
province. I have been induced to make this statement from the
esteem I intertain for Mº Connor & the Interist I cannot avoid feeling
for a young Gentleman whose circumstances are much straitened,
and his lving in a very expensive Town, devoting his time exclusively
to the publick service.”
Mº Conner intends applying for the office of Surveyor * in the
room of M* Smith. I think him highly deserving of the appointmint
and should rejoice to see him appointed if it be consistent with the
views of the President.”
I renew the assurance of my high respct &c
GEO. WALTON
THE HNb" JoHN QUINCY ADAMS
[Endorsed] Walton George Pensacola, 27 July 1822 Recd 21 Aug"
Claim of John Coppinger Connor.
39 The account in question has not been located.
90 Surveyor of customs.
* Reply, if any, not found.



500 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
BALTIMORE July 29, 1822
SIR-In consequence of your letter informing me,” that Judge
Smith had my Commission as Marshall for East Florida,” I remained
to enter on the duties of that office till after the first inst; the day
appointed by the Act of Congress to hold his Court—He had not
reached Sº Augustine on the 10” when I left there with my family
for this city—It was generally supposed, he would not go on, till
about the last of September: And as I could do nothing till his arrival;
I have yielded to the wishes of my family, to retire them, for a short
season to their native State—Altho' I could not strictly name a
Deputy—Yet, that the public service, might in no event, suffer thro'
my means, I left a Blank Commission & recommended to the approval
of Judge Smith, Mr Waters Smith of New York, who would give any
required Security—
The District Attorney, requested to occupy a certain portion of the
Government House; But I had previously put it into the possession
of the Mayor, Col. Forbes—deeming him a fit officer, till he should
hear from Gov" Du Val, or the proper Authority, of it's future dis-
position. Even, lest, this little matter, might possibly not be correctly
represented; I forward copies of mine & Col. Forbes's letters concern-
ing it *—
Before it can be necessary for my services in Florida; I shall do
myself the honor of paying you my personal respects; when I shall be
able to decide upon my positive future course, respecting my return
to or retirement from Florida "-
With distinguished consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
THE HONb" John Q. ADAMS Secº of State
|Addressed] The Honb" J. Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington—
[Endorsed] Worthington W G D. Bal: 29 July 1822 Recd 30 His
arrival at Baltimore &c
92 May 27, 1822, NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xix).
* The commission was dated May 3, 1822, NA (SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.).
* Present.
* See post, p. 506.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 501
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 30th July 1822
SIR I have this moment received a very polite letter from Bishop
English” informing Me, that he protests, against my possession of
the R Catholic Church in this place, to which I have replied, that he
has been much misinformed, as I have never had or claimed its
possession *—
I have the honor to remain your Obser"
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
JOHN Q. ADAMS Esq Secº of State.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Recd., D 29:LS)
PENSACOLA 34 August 1822.
SIR. I have the honor to transmit to you, a talk which I lately
held with two Chiefs of Florida, Blunt * and Tus-Ki-har-gi.
You will see from the enclosed that the Indians are becoming
restless, and they complain that General Jackson's promises to them
have not been executed. The death of the two men who have been
murdered by the Indians, will (among the remote settlers,) occasion
some apprehension—I therefore demanded their surrender; which
the two Chiefs promised speedily to attend to, and effect.
Stephen Richards the interpreter is a man of good character and
well qualified for his situation, he was employed by General Jackson
during the time he held the government here, and visited Pensacola
several times with the Chiefs who came to see and talk with the general.
he states that no compensation was ever made to him for his services,
although he was assured by General Jackson that he should be
paid.—M" Richards has presented his account, which is enclosed to
you—I have on full consideration appointed a meeting with the
Indians at the Post of St Marks on the 20" day of next November;
this I was convinced was necessary in order to Keep them quiet until
you should have time to direct such measures as you may deem proper,
and to prepare for the meeting. I cannot too strongly press on you
the importance of speedily acting definitively with the Indians.
They are represented to me as being in a famishing condition, scattered
over Florida, unwilling to make any improvements least they should
be compelled to surrender them. I cannot avoid, consistent with my
duty, urging that a more liberal allowance for rations and presents
96 Not found.
* See ante, p. 492.
* John Blunt or Blount.



502 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
ought to be made than that specified in your instructions to me
on this subject. If the Chiefs and their warriors should assem-
ble in November at St Marks, the amount allowed for rations,
in this Southern Country where every article sells at a double price,
would not feed them three days. The Indian Chief Blunt, with
whose character you are no doubt acquainted, acted as a guide to
Gen' Jackson during the Seminole War, and states that the General
promised he should have a pension for his services. I have spoken
with Capt" Call, one of the General's aids, on this subject, and he
confirms Blunt's statement. This Chief has requested me to write
to you on this subject and learn whether General Jackson ever urged
his claim on the Government, and if so whether any compensation or
pension will be granted to him for his services—Blunt is a candid,
and honest man.
The funds intended for the Indians in Florida should be forwarded
as early as convenient, as the articles intended as presents will have
to be purchased in New Orleans—they cannot be procured here.
Blunt has made a proposal—which he requested I would communicate
to the President—it is to mark out a road from Pensacola to St
Augustine. the nearest and best route, and he is of opinion that a
good road may be made between the two Cities not exceeding 400
miles—
I have understood from the members of the Council from East
Florida that Col: Eustis is willing to be ordered to open a road, and
Col: Clinch who commands at this Post is equally anxious to assist
in the undertaking. A Military road connecting the two extremes of
Florida would be highly important in any future war, and would
greatly add to the value of the public lands through which it must
pass.”
I have the honor to be Yr Obdt Servt.
Wm P. DUVAL
HON J. C. CALHOUN Secretary at War.
[Addressed] Hon" John C. Calhoun Secretary at War Washington
City
[Endorsed] Duval. W. P. &c. Pensacola, 3 Aug", 1822. Encloses a
talk—relative to the State of the Indians—the Interpreter; Stephen
Richards, claim—account enclosed—has appointed a meeting with
the Indians—rations and presents—Blunt's claim—funds—road
between Pensacola & Sº Augustine—
** Answered post, p. 518.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 503
[Enclosure: CS)
Governor DuVal's Talk with Seminole Chiefs
[July . . . 1822)
TERRITORY OF FLORIDA City of Pensacola
On the 25” & 26* day of July 1822 Blunt and, Tus:ki,har,jo or
Cotharn called on me at my executive Chamber & Stated to me by
their Interpreter, Stephen Richards, that the Indians were becoming
restless, with the uncertainty of their Situation, That Gen' Jackson
in his talk with them in September last, promised that in a few months
the place or land intended for the Florida Indians should be marked
out for them, that they have waited a long time, and yet nothing has
been done, that they wish to know when their Father the President
would determine where they were to live—That White men were
settling in and near their Towns which they did not like—That two
men, named, Cap" W* B. Crowder, one Gilstrap had been murdered
on the East side of the Suwany Bay in April last, by W* Bowles, a
half Indian, Ill,la-toa-ka & others. They also desired to know if I
had any information for them from the Great Father, The President
On the 28* Ins" the two Chiefs attended and heard my talk which
was as follows:–Brothers, I am glad to see you, But I am sorry your
Great Father has not yet directed me where you are to live—I look
every day now when the President will send me his orders and then I
will send you word. I know the talk which Gen' Jackson delivered
to you last September, that was a plain & Strait talk, and I hope your
Great Father the President; has harkened to Gen' Jackson's words
and will soon send me his orders what to do for you. Brothers our
chiefs at Washington are few, that do all the business of the Great
American nation. They cannot do. every thing quick—that would
be more than any men could do—but be patient, all that is right, will
be done for you in good time—Keep your People Strait, do not let
bad men come among you, nor trust to bad counsel—for that will
bring evil and distress on you. I am sorry Brothers, that Billy Bowles.
Ill-la,too,ka, and others should be so bad as to murder Cap" W* B.
Crowder and Gilstrap—This was done in cold blood and they must be
delivered to the commanding officer at the post of St Marks—this is
what your Great Father the President will expect, and if it is not
done his warriors will soon raise the hatchet. If a white man murders
a red man the white man must suffer death, so all shall be fair and
strait—bad men white or red must be punished so is the rule or law
of all nations, Such is the law of your Great Father the President
Brothers we want to live with you in peace, and I will make our white
men behave themselves or I will punish them. Brothers I will send
you the Agent, if I cannot go myself to meet all your Cheifs at the
Post of St Marks on the 20th day of next November, if the Agent



504 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
should not come to see you at that time I will send some person that
will inform you what the President shall direct—If your Chiefs will
have all the slaves belonging to the white men who have run away to
Florida brought to to the Post of St Marks you shall have what is
right for bringing us in the Negroes, I will see that you shall be paid
for your time and trouble, be active in bringing to the Post of St.
Marks all the Slaves that you can find Brothers, hear me, be patient
and live in peace until I send you word—This I will do, you need not
travel so far, on uncertainty Mº Richards shall have word from me
and he will tell you what is to be done.
Wm. P. DUVAL. Governor of Florida
Test (A copy) STEPHEN RICHARDs.
[Enclosure: DS)
Proclamation by Governor DuVal
|July 29, 1822)
Proclamation of the Governor of the Territory of Florida
To all whom it may concern, Pursuant to the several laws passed
by Congress regulating the intercourse and Trade with the Indian
Tribes, I hereby Proclaim that no person or persons shall be permitted
to purchase of any Indian residing in this Territory any Cattle, hogs,
horses or slaves, unless by special licence granted to him or them for
that purpose either by the President of the United States or Col.
Humphrys the agent for the Indians in this Territory or myself Nor
shall any person be permitted to trade or sell any Indian or Indians
any liquors of any sort or discription under any pretence whatever,
Those who have or hereafter may violate the laws regulating the trade
with the Indians shall be arrested & punished
The Citizens of the United States and all other persons are hereby
forbid to settle in or near any Indian Town or village, as they will be
liable to be removed by Military force
Given under my hand this 29* day of July 1822 at the City of
Pensacola
Wm. P. DUVAL Governor of Florida
This proclamation, I shall have printed and sent thro, Florida
1 Published in the Pensacola Floridian, Aug. 10, 1822.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 505
[Enclosure]
Account of Stephen Richards
[No date, 1822)
Unted States to Stephen Richards Dr for Services as Indian Inter-
preter
Sept 5* 1821 to 22 day on visit to Pensacola with three cheifs
on Business—expencies—$18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
22 days $82 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
$100
Sundry times . . . . . . . . . $20 . . . . . . . . . . 20
Nov. 12 Visit to Mikesooke * & St Marks . . . . . . . . . 60
Sundrys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Jan 21–1822 to explane the talk from Col Walton in Mikisooke
at a talk held by the cheifs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Sundarys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
March 20 Visit St Marks to Settle a Report made by some
whitemen one month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Sundarys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
$385.
JUDGE BRACKENRIDGE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
PENSACOLA Aug' 4* 1822–
SIR-I have received a letter from Mº Robertson” of North Carolina,
from which it appears, that instead of being on his way to enter upon
the duties of his Office, he is yet hesitating whether to come here at all
or stay where he is. He makes a variety of enquiries relative to the
nature and emoluments of his Office, wishes to know whether the
letter published sometime ago in the National Intelligencer giving an
unfavorable account of the country can be relied on. He request me
to send him the form of the bond required of him, so that he may have
it executed and transmitted to me for approval, and which I am to
forward to him before he can leave home. In the meantime, his
services are very much wanted.
I have appointed a clerk, and suits have been instituted before me
as Judge of the territorial court; but I am at a loss what to do in cases
* Mikasuki, a Seminole town on Miccosukee lake, at or near present Miccosukee,
Leon County.
* Benjamin Robertson was nominated and confirmed as marshal of W. Fla.
May 7, 1822 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 306). But “Robertson” was an error
for “Robinson.” See post, p. 591, n.



506 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
which may arrise under the laws of the United States. No act of
Congress that I am acquainted with, authorises me to appoint a
Marshall pro hac vice,” and unless it be incident to the court, the
absence of M" Robertson will be very injurious—
I am most respectfully Your obe He Sw"
H: M. BRACKENRIDGE
HON JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secº of State U.S.–
[Endorsed] H. M. Brackenridge—
WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x: ALS)
BALTIMORE August 10 1822
SIR-In pursuance of what I wrote you on the 29 Ult” in answer to
your letter of the 27* May" last And in accordance with the Conversa-
tion which I had the honor to hold personally with you in Washington
on the 6* Inst.—I now take leave, formally to decline, the Office of
Marshall for East Florida—
I assure you Sir, I am sensible of this additional proof of the good
opinion & friendship of the President & his Administration towards
me:—And it gives me pain, that such should be my own situation &
that of my family as to prevent my assuming the duties of any post,
to which they may have thought proper to appoint me: Since, not-
withstanding, for my Floridian services, as well as all others, in which
I have had the honor to be employed by my Country, the Govern-
ment, have acted fairly & liberally, as far as they were authorised:
yet my sacrafices have been greater in this last Tour than I calculated.
So much so, that not only not the Marshalship, but not even the
certainty of a seat in Congress as Delegate (of which had I remained
there, I have not the smallest doubt) would justify my returning
there, for some time.-
I wish it to be distinctly understood; that altho', I now am again a
private citizen, I always hold myself ready & willing to serve my
Country in any fit capacity where I can be of benefit to her, either at
home or abroad, to the extent of my humble abilities & with that
industry integrity & honor, at which, I have ever aimed, both in my
private & public life—
With distinguished Consideration &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
THE HONB" JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secº of State
* For this occasion.
*Ante, p. 500.
• NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xix), stating that a commission appointing him marshal
of E. Fla. had been forwarded to Judge Smith.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 507
[Addressed] The Honble John Quincy Adams Secº of State Washing-
ton [Postmarked] Baltimore Md Aug 10 free
[Endorsed] Worthington W G D. Baltimore, 10 August 1822 Recd
11th. declines accepting the app" of Marshal for E. Florida.
DANIEL BRENT TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 16. August 1822
ALEXANDER HAMILTON Esquire Attorney of the U.S. for East Florida,
S” Augustine.
SIR Conformably with the suggestion in your Letter to the
Secretary of the 18 of June 7 and with the law of the last Session of
Congress establishing a territorial Government for Florida, The
President has signed another Commission for you as attorney for
East Florida, which I have the honour, by direction of the Secretary
herewith to transmit to you.
Upon receiving this one, you will have the goodness to return that
which you now have.
I am with much Respect, Sir, your very humble and ob' Servant
DANIEL BRENT
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: LS]
[August 17, 1822)
JAMES MONROE President of the United States
SIR By the Act of Congress providing for the Government of
Florida, the Governor of this Territory is directed to publish the
Laws which shall be enacted by the Legislative Council throughout
the Territory; * this it will be impossible to do, for want of funds,
unless authorized by you. I presume that Congress intended to
meet this expense, or they would not have directed the Governor
to publish the Laws.
The Collector of this port, M. Scott has utterly refused to make
any provision for the sick seamen & sailors who arrive here, although
the fund for this purpose is overflowing, alledging that he has no
power to act or to make such provision—
In consequence of his refusing to give any assistance in such cases,
humanity has compelled me to have the sick sailors and Seamen
provided for, I hope Sir, you will order the Collector to refund to
this City, the money which, under my orders, the Mayor has ad-
7 Ante, p. 459.
* Ante, p. 389.



508 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
vanced for this object, and also give directions to the Collector to
provide for this class of valuable citizens in future; The Spanish in-
habitants of this Territory seem much better reconciled than hereto-
fore—they are certainly a good, quiet, and orderly people, much more
so than our own population.
I hope that the Government of the United States will act towards
them with the same liberality, that was extended to Louisiana
The majority of the Legislative Council, eight only being present
are actively engaged in preparing a Code of Laws for the Territory.”
With sentiments of high respect I am Your Obdt Servt.
Wm P. DUVAL
Pensacola August 17* 1822.
[Addressed) James Monroe President of the United States Washing-
ton [Postmarked] Pensacola Aug. 19. Free
[Endorsed] Secry of State—Govr Duvall, Duval W. P. August 17.
1822. Gov. of Florida
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR August 19, 1822
EXCy Wm P. DUVALL Pensacola
SIR, Your letter of the 18" Ultimo has been received.”
The Indian Agent has been ordered to repair to Florida immediately
and report himself to you for instructions. A copy of the order is
enclosed.”
The Department has never had but one view in relation to the
Indians of Florida, that is, that they should join the Creek Indians
in Georgia, which will appear by the papers enclosed to you with my
letter of the 23° Ultimo,” but it was found that the people of Georgia
had insuperable objections to this arrangement, and in consequence
of which it was not deemed desirable to take any Steps for effecting
it, without an express act of Congress authorising the measure. The
next view was to concentrate them in Florida, and measures were
accordingly taken last fall by Captain Bell who then acted as tem-
porary agent for Indian Affairs to concentrate them at the point
designated by Genl Jackson, in his letter of the 20" September 1821 *
(of which an extract is enclosed) but these measures were defeated
by the refusal of the Indians to meet Capt" Bell at the time appointed.
The Subject would have been resumed this Spring, but the appropria-
* No acknowledgment found.
10 Ante, p. 491.
11 Infra.
12 NA(OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
is Ante, p. 210.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 509
tion was not made until too late in the Season to hold a treaty in
a climate so warm and sickly and where too the Indians were sup-
posed to be engaged in making their crops. The season of the year
now approaches when these objections will not exist, and as soon as
the Indian Agent arrives, you will cause the Indians to be assembled
without delay, and final arrangements made with them for their
concentration at the point proposed. The means for conciliating the
Indians and facilitating the accomplishment of the object of the
meeting are already in the Indian Country (as you will observe by
the enclosed extract of a letter from Capt Bell) and orders have been
given to Capt" Bell to place these means at your disposal, and also
to deliver over to your order the sum of $298 34/100 which remains
in his hands, to be applied to the same object, if it should be necessary.
Any further funds that may be necessary to meet the expenses of
your superintendency, will be remitted to you from the Treasury,
as you have heretofore been apprized, upon your quarterly estimates,
as soon as they are received at this Department.
It is not in my power to transmit to you, agreeably to your request,
the documents laid before Congress containing the accounts of the
several superintendents and agents of Indian Affairs, as there is no
spare copy in the Department, and they are too voluminous to be
transcribed entire. If you will point out any particular part of them
which you want, it shall be extracted and transmitted to you. I
have no doubt of the important advantages of a road from Pensacola
to Sº Augustine, and that the military force in Florida might be use-
fully employed on such a work, but as it would be attended with a
considerable expense, it cannot be done without the authority of
Congress.”
J. C. C.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GAD HUMPHREYS
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR, August 19° 1822.
COL. GAD HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent, Marcellus, New York
SIR, From information recently received from Florida, it appears
that the presence of the Indian Agent there is indispensable; and you
will make immediate arrangements for your departure for Florida.
On your arrival there, you will report yourself to the Governor at
Pensacola who is acquainted with the views of the Government in
relation to the Indians, and will furnish you with all necessary in-
structions for your government in the discharge of your duties. The
Governor will also furnish you with funds to defray the expenses
consequent upon your intercourse with the Indians.
* Answered post, p. 533. See post, p. 518.



510 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
As your bond has not yet been received, you will forthwith trans-
mit it, duly executed, to this Department, and state the probable
time of your departure—Any omission, or unreasonable delay on
your part, to comply with the above order, will be considered as a
resignation of your office, and a new appointment will be made.”
J. C. C.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 20 August 1822
W" P. DUVAL Esquire. Governor of Florida
SIR Your Letters of the 21" and 30°h" of June and 17 of July"
have been received and submitted to the consideration of the
President.
With regard to the occupation by the Military of the public Build-
ings, orders have been already transmitted from the War Depart-
ment to Colonel Clinch to place them at the disposal of the Civil
authority.”
With regard to the question whether the Legislative Council are
authorized by the Act of Congress to Continue in Session, two months
from the time of their first meeting, I presume they must have settled
it upon their own view of the Law before this Letter can be received.
No appropriation having been made by Congress at thier last
Session to defray the necessary expences of the territorial Govern-
ment of Florida, such indispensable charges, as will not admit of delay
have been, and will continue to be paid from the balance remaining
of the appropriation of the preceeding year for carrying into effect
the Florida Treaty.
Conformably to your Recommendation a Commission has been
made out and forwarded to you for M" de la Ruca and M* Noriega
as members of the Legislative Council.”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and ob" Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
15 See post, p. 513.
1° Ante, p. 470.
17 Ante, p. 478.
18 Ante, p. 489.
19 Ante, p. 488.
20 Answered (by Walton) post, p. 556. See also post, p. 534.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 511
JAMES G. FORBES TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 20th August 1822
MY DEAR SIR I had the pleasure of addressing You a long private
and an official letter about ten days ago” to be put into the Post
Office at Charleston, containing my accounts it is of vast importance
to me that it should be received and acted upon favorably of which
I rely upon your ever friendly advice—Accounts from Pensacola to
20th Ulto mention that the Legislative Council had not yet formed!—
We are in a miserable State—I am always most truly Yrs
J. G* FORBES
F. MAURY Esq
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esquire Washington
[Endorsed] Forbes J G Sº Augustine 20 Aug 1822 About his
Accounts
JAMES G. FORBES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x: ALS)
Sº AUGUSTINE 20th August 1822
SIR I am desired by the City Council to present to you for the
Consideration of the President, their resolution of yesterday request-
ing that Fort S*Mark's in this harbor be applied to Civil purposes.
“Resolved. That his Honor, the Mayor be requested to address a
Letter to the Secretary of State of the U.S. informing him, that there
is no prison in this place or any part of East Florida for the Confine-
ment of Criminals, disorderly persons and Debtors, that neither the
City of Sº Augustine, nor the County of Sº John's has any funds to
build a prison, and that as Fort S* Marks was always under the
Spanish Government, used as a Prison, and at present is of no sort
of use to the Military force stationed here being only occupied by a
serjeants guard, that it be requested that the said Fort be given up
to the Civil authority to be used as a prison”*
I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your Most Obedient
and very faithful Servant
J. G* FORBEs Mayor
THE HONBLE JOHN Q. ADAMS. Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Forbes James G. S." Augustine 20 Aug. 1822 Resolution
of City Council J. G. Forbes.
21 Aug. 2, 1822. The private letter has not been seen. The public one is in
NA (SD, Misc. Lets.), and covers three accounts (all present) for services ren-
dered as U. S. marshal. - - -
* Reply, if any, not found.



512 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ABRAHAM EUSTIS
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR August 21* 1822.
COL. A. EUSTISS” Augustine Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 23° Ultimo, enclosing a copy of a letter from
Captain Pelham to you, and of your reply to the same, has been re-
ceived.”
I approve of your taking charge of the affairs of the Indians during
the absence of Captain Pelham, and proceed to answer, for your in-
formation and government, the several inquiries contained in your
letter upon that subject in the order in which they are made.
1. The law regulating trade and intercourse is considered to apply
with full force to the territory of Florida; and the boundaries established
between the Indians and English and Spaniards, or which existed
at the time the Floridas passed into the possession of the United
States, must be taken as designating the portion of the Territory to be
considered “Indian Country”—until some definitive arrangement on
the subject is made.
2. The Superintendents and Agents of Indian Affairs only are
authorised to issue licenses to trade with the Indians. Passports to
go into the Indian Country may in certain cases, be granted by military
Officers (see 3" sec: law of intercourse).”
3. The Spanish or other foreign inhabitants of the Territory of
Florida, are to be considered de facto, citizens of the United States,
after they have taken the oath of Allegiance, without passing thro’ the
formalities of the naturalization law.
4. Persons claiming title to lands, under Spanish grants, which are
situated within the existing Indian boundary, will not be allowed to
occupy the lands, without special permission from the government.
5. White people committing offences, or becoming mischievous or
troublesome, in the Indian Country, may be removed and punished
(See 4.5.6 & 16 Sections law of intercourse.)”
6* In relation to the sale of horses, cattle, and negroes by the
Indians see 10th section of the law of intercourse.”
7. As it is probable that impositions and oppressions may be at-
tempted to be practised on the Indians under color of contracts made
with them, before the session of the Territory, the persons pretending
to hold such contracts will not be permitted to go into the Indian
Country for the purpose of obtaining their fulfillment, except under
the authority of a license from the Superintendent or Agent of Indian
Affairs, to whom application must be made for that purpose.
* Ante, p. 495.
24 Approved Mar. 30, 1802, 2 STAT. 141.
252 STAT. 141–142, 144–145.
262 STAT. 1.42–143.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 513
8. An Indian is not punishable for merely crossing the boundary
line into the white settlements, unless he commits offence while there
(see 14 section—Law of intercourse).”
9. Any moderate expense incurred in the necessary intercourse
with the Indians will be paid by the Governor of the Territory; but
as the appropriation is very limited, great care will be taken to incur
as little as possible.
10* Respectable Indians visiting the post on business or otherwise,
may be furnished with rations to a moderate amount—none, however
ought to be issued except when they are indispensably necessary—
nor should frequent or unnecessary visits be encouraged.
I enclose herewith copies of the law of intercourse and the supple-
mentary law passed at the late session of congress, for your infor-
mation and government. -
While you continue to attend to Indian Affairs, you will correspond
with Gov" Duval, and keep him informed of your proceedings. The
Indian Agent has been ordered to Florida, and it is expected he will
relieve you from this duty in a short time.”
J. C. C.
WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
BALTIMORE Aug' 22. 1822
SIR-Yours of the 19. Inst”—I rec" on yesterday—I suspect the
enclosed paper marked B"—is a copy verbatim of the account which
you say was enclosed in my letter of the 12 of March last to the Secre-
tary of State”—It is Copied from one preserved amongst my private
papers, but the letter of the 12—is left with the public papers of
East Florida and I am unable to supply the Special Account A. with
the vouchers mentioned in this, B.-But I suppose that is not requisite
as this is the general account—Your letter of the 3° of June stated,”
there was due me $1345.50—I took it for granted, that might be the
sum, therefore when you handed me your check on the 6. Inst for
that Sum, I signed the receipt you presented & said nothing—
272 STAT. 143–144.
* See post, p. 532.
29 NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xix), to the effect that the 5th Auditor had lost Worth-
ington's letter of Mar. 12 (ante, p. 379) containing his account as Act. Gov. of
E. Fla., and asking for a duplicate.
*0 Not present.
* Ante, p. 379.
** Not found.
301867–57—34



514 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
If it be usual & proper, when my account is finally settled, be pleased
to forward me a Copy of it to this place; where I have resumed my
residence and already am reengaged in the labours of the Bar—
Yours very respectfully &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON.—
FoNTAINE MAURY Esq.
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esqr. Dep" of State Washington
[Endorsed] Worthington W. G. D. August 22, '22.
FONTAINE MAURY TO SECRETARY WALTON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XIX.]
Department of State WASHINGTON 23 Aug 1822
GEORGE WALTON Esquire Pensacola, West Florida
SIR. Your Several Letters to the Secretary and to myself up to the
16 Ultimo have been received “and your account has this day been set-
tled leaving a balance in your favour of $1272.31 for which I have
authorized your friend M* Nisbet to draw on me. The accounts of
M" Fry for $1280 and of Mr Alba for 765, are also allowed and these
Gentlemen are at Liberty to draw on me at sight for their respective
amounts, of which I request the favour of you to inform them.
I am with great Respect Sir your very humble and obedient Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
Since writing the foregoing I have concluded to inclose M. Fry and
Mº Alba my Check on the Branch of the US. B. at this place for
their respective claims, which I hope may better answer their purpose.
NATHANIEL A. WARE AND SAMUEL R. OVERTON TO
THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA, August 24* 1822.
SIR, Colo. Preston, one of the Commissioners appointed to ascertain
claims and titles to land, has not yet arrived, and we have been
unable, from any information which has reached us, to make any
confident calculations in the subject.” It has been stated upon the
credit of a letter written from Norfolk, that he will be here in the fall,
and that it is expected he will be appointed the Surveyor General
* Cf. ante, pp. 456, 481.
* Preston never arrived in Florida. He was instructed on May 23, 1823, to
report there for attendance with the land commissioners (NA, SD, Dom. Lets.,
XX). His own ill health and the fatal sickness of his mother caused him to
submit his resignation on June 4, 1823 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). See post, p. 623.



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 515
of Florida. Colo. Preston, no doubt, merits any office which could
be conferred upon him; but we should lament being deprived of his co-
operation as a Commissioner. We also regret it, as it may produce
some delay in filling his vacancy, which will have subjected two
Commissioners to the performance of all the duties assigned to a full
board. In order to avoid any further uncertainty and delay, and
secure the cooperation of a full board, we have taken the liberty, in
the event of Colo. Preston's receiving the appointment of Surveyor
General, respectfully to recommend Joseph M. White of this plaice,
as his successor.
M* White received an appointment as a member of the Legislative
Council of Florida, and has since been elected as Secretary to the
Board of Commissioners. He is well acquainted with the Spanish
language, and for Science and legal acquirements, possesses a highly
respectable reputation. Since his arrival in Florida, he has devoted
a portion of his attention to the jurisprudence of the country, and if
so fortunate as to receive the appointment, would be enabled to
afford to the board the most efficient assistance. From his acquain-
tance with the laws and ordinances of the Spanish government, we
have no hesitation in saying, that he is well qualified for the station,
and that his appointment would meet with the public approbation.
The utmost confidence may be reposed in his integrity, as well as in
his talents, and competency to do ample justice to the United States
and the claimants.- -
A sincere desire that the duties which have devolved upon us should
be discharged with fidelity, and the objects of our commission accom-
plished as speedily and successfully as possible, are the considerations
which have induced us to address you upon this subject. We there-
fore hope, that it may not be considered as obtrusive, but as an act
resulting from our best wishes to subserve the interests of the govern-
ment.—
With sentiments of the highest respect, We are y, mo. obt. Serts.
NATH. A. WARE l
SAM" R. Overton]
JAMES MONROE, President of U. States, Washington City.
|Addressed) James Monroe, President of U. States, Washington
City. Mail. [Postmarked] Pensacola Aug. 26. Free
[Endorsed] Secry of State—Commiss” of Land claims—Pensacola
Commiss”



516 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
NATHANIEL A. WARE AND SAMUEL R. OVERTON TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA Aug 25* 1822
SIR. The Commissioners for the adjudication of land claims in
Florida commenced their Sessien about one month since, and upon
examination of the Alcalde’s office, and other information furnished
us, we are induced to believe that ther are not more than Sixty or
Eighty original titles in West Florida, the whole of the other docu-
ments relating to the sovereignty and property of the Country, have
been taken by the Spanish officers to Havana, instead of being sur-
rendered conformably to the 8th article of the Treaty to the American
commissioners,
The late Surveyor General Don Vincente Sebastian Pintado has
retained in his possession the record of his proceedings; and individual
claimants are subjected, to the payment of enormous sums for copies
and exemplifications,—We have no doubt that the officers of the late
Government carried off those papers for the purposes of extortion and
imposition.
The Commissioners are reduced to this dilema either to, receive
exemplifications as conclusive evidence of title, in which case an
avenue will be opened to fraud and imposition on our government in
the fabrication of titles in Havana or Individual claimants injured by
the rejection of those copies—We would therefore earnestly request
that the most efficient measures be taken by the President to procure
the originals as speedily as possible *
We have the honor to be with high considerations of respect your
obt Servants—
NATH A WARE
SAM! R. OVERTON.
|Addressed] The Hon John Q. Adams Secretary of State Wash-
ington City Free
[Endorsed] Ware N. A. & Overton Sam' R Pensacola 25 August
1822 Relating to Land titles
JOSEPH M. WHITE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA Aug 25* 1822
SIR. The Commissioners have addressed to you a letter on the
subject of an obstacle that has occurred to prevent the execution of
their commission—I understand that the officers at Havana deny
that they have carried off the original records, which in many instances
* See post, p. 552.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 517
constituted the only evidences of tittle in the claimants in West
Florida, I feel it my duty to state to you that there is now in my
possession as Secretary to the Board of Commissioners, more than
twenty certified Copies of original papers, purpoting to have been
taken from the records of the late officers in this province and Certified
as true Copies by the Surveyor general. and in many cases by the
Captain General himself—I will furnish to your order at any time a
certified Copy of the list of claims of that description, which will
establish the fact that the originals are at Havana—or the exempli-
fications produced forgeries In one case in a large claim near Pensa-
cola, the claimant alledges the original papers to be lost, and produced
a Certified Copy by which it will appear that he is entitled Eighteen
thousand Acres of land when in fact the grant originally issued it is
said by the old Inhabitants for about four thousand, you will readily
See Sir, the imposition to which our government will be subjected,
by a flagrant violation of the Stipulation in the 8th article of the
Treaty by Spain Should the President think proper to honor me
with the confidence I will take great pleasure in proceeding to Havana
to demand the papers they can find no apology for withholding
those of which they have given Copies. The Revenue Cutter is now
at this place and other public vessels in the gulf by which the object
could be immediately accomplished ”—
I have the honor to be with high considerations of respect your
Obt St
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] The Hon John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Wash-
ington City [Postmarked] Pensacola Aug. 26. free
[Endorsed] White Jo. M. Pensacola 26 Augt. 1822 relating to Land
Claims in West Florida
F. H. NISBET TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PHILAD" 26 Aug 1822
FONTAINE MAURY Esq.r Department of State
SIR I have the honour to acknowlege receipt of your favour of
23° inst " and in Conformity now enclose the power of Attorney
with the receipt for the amount due Col Walton, which please remit
in such manner as is customary in the Department—
It was Col. Walton's intention that I should receive the first
quarters Salery under his present appointment; in your reply you
* No reply found. For an account of the efforts of the United States to ob-
tain the land records from Cuba, see A. J. Hanna, “Diplomatic Missions of the
United States to Cuba to Secure the Spanish Archives of Florida,” in A. C.
Wilgus (ed.), Hispanic American Essays (Chapel Hill, 1942), pp. 208–233.
*7 NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XIX).



518 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
will confer a particular favour by mentioning whether this can yet
be paid, I beg leave also to trouble you for a Statement of the
Accº as now adjusted.—
With thanks for your prompt attention to this business I Remain
with much respect Your very humble & Obt Servº
F. H. NISBET
Please direct to Care Mess" Stone & Todd Philad”
|Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esquire Department of State Wash-
ington City [Postmarked] Phil Aug 26 25
[Endorsed] F. H. Nisbet 26 August 1822
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR August 28° 1822.
GOV: WILLIAM P. DUVALL, Florida. Pensacola
SIR, Your letter of the 3° instant has been received.* I approve of
the measures which you have adopted upon the subject of Indian
Affairs.
My letter to you of the 19* instant * will apprize you of the causes
which have delayed to this period any definitive arrangement in rela-
tion to the Indians in Florida, and of the measures now proposed to
be taken to effect that object. The time which you have appointed
for a meeting with the Indians is a very proper one, as it will afford
time for the Indian Agent to reach his post and make any preparatory
arrangements which may be necessary previous to the assembling
of the Indians. If it should suit you to attend the meeting as the
Commissioner on the part of the United States to treat with the In-
dians, you are authorised to do so, and you will be allowed at the
rate of $8 a day for the time you may be actually engaged on that
duty, which will be paid on your certificate of honor as to the time
actually engaged. If it should not be convenient for you to act, you
will, as soon as practicable, name some suitable person to this De-
partment to be appointed for that purpose, and I would suggest
whether the services of Captain Bell, who from his temporary em-
ployment in the Indian Department in Florida has acquired some
knowledge of the Indians could not be advantageously employed in
this way.
It appears by the extract of General Jacksons letter enclosed to you
with my letter of the 19* inst: that the point designated by him
as the most proper for the concentration of the Indians might in some
degree interfere with the grant to Forbes & Co.: If the Indian title to
** Ante, p. 501.
** Ante, p. 508.



FLORI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 519
the Country claimed by this grant has been extinguished, care must
be taken in making the arrangements for the location of the Indians,
not to embarrass the government by an interference with it; but if
the Indian title has not been extinguished, there will be no difficulty
on that score. The Commissioners appointed to settle claims to land
in Florida will perhaps be able to give you satisfactory information
on this subject.
I am aware that the funds assigned to your superintendency are
scant, and will require the most rigid economy to render them avail-
able, even for the ordinary expenses of the Indian Department—the
allowance is however as liberal for that purpose as the appropriation
would admit of. An additional allowance will be made for the extra
expense which it may be necessary to incur in consequence of the
proposed treaty, and I have to request you will transmit to me as
early as practicable an estimate of the probable amount of such ex-
pense, and if deemed reasonable funds will be forwarded to enable
you to meet it.
In relation to M'. Richards the Interpreter, I enclose herewith
an extract of a letter from this Department to Captain Bell, authoriz-
ing him to give M*. Richards the appointment of Interpreter with an
annual compensation of $365.” You will therefore settle the account
of M*. Richards at this rate, and if he has not been regularly appointed
an Indian Interpreter in the service of the government, you are
authorized to appoint him, as one will be absolutely necessary, and
he appears to be a man of good character. He will perform his duties
under your directions. To enable you to pay him for past services
I have directed the sum of $500 to be remitted to you, which will leave
a surplus to be applied to other purposes.
In July 1818, not long after the termination of the Semenole War,
the Indian Chief Blunt, to whom you refer, visited the seat of Govern-
ment in company with M. Hambly, and upon a representation of his
services by General Jackson, he was allowed and paid therefor the sum
of $1000, which was deemed an adequate compensation, consequently
he can have no just claim now on the government for the same services.
Since my answer to you of the 19* inst in relation to your proposi-
tion for opening a road between Pensacola and Sº Augustine, I have
thought it probable that the expense of merely opening the road,
would not be great, and if you will transmit to me an estimate of the
probable amount of the cost, including the extra pay of the soldiers
(an estimate of which you may obtain from the Quarter Master) I will
decide upon the subject, and apprize you of the decision.”
J. C. C.
40 Nov. 17, 1821, NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
*1 Acknowledged post, p. 558. See also post, pp. 597, 607.



520 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
WILLIAM D. G. WORTHINGTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS)
BALTIMORE Aug" 28. 1822
D' SIR-Yours of yesterday” covering a Copy of Mr Gay's letter of
the 3** is just at hand—
I sent on the account of the Commissioners Clerks & Secretaries to
the Dept of State some time last winter—whatever is allowed them,
Mr Gay is entitled to “—& no more—The charge for stationery, I
think was about twenty Dollars—that belongs to him as he furnished
it—all of which, stating the number of days the Commissioners &
Secretaries were employed, I sent on, & saying what they ought to be
allowed—Mr Gay did not Act as Clerk more than two days—The
Secretaries superceded him & Mr Bird the other Clerk—Judge
Bethune one of the Secretaries going away, before the Commission
closed, he was substituted in his place—The pro rata, is an affair be-
tween them—I have here no papers to guide my memory—In some one
of the enclosed letters, from me to the Dep" of State, as per list, you
will find the Account alluded to-
Mr Gay was cognizant of all these facts, yet he seems to throw some
insinuations at the late Acting Governor—who not being in the habit,
of being importunate in such matters, either for himself or others,
felt that he had discharged his duty when he plainly & decorously
laid them before the proper tribunal—Therefore he does not conceive
that even the slightest laches is imputable to him, much less any
other fault—
I shall be happy at all times to afford any information in my power—
Yours very respectfully &c
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
FONTAINE MAURY Esq".
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq.r Dept of State
[Endorsed] Worthington W G D. Bal: 28th Augt 1822 Recd 30th.
Gay's aſc. Commissioners 27 days @ 3 ds—Clerk 27 (G) 5 Secre-
taries 26—5
* A letter of inquiry regarding Gay's services preparatory to a settlement of
his accounts (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX).
43 Not found.
* As clerk to the commissioners appointed to take possession of the E. Fla.
archives.



FL OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 521
MEMORIAL TO THE PRESIDENT BY THE LEGISLATIVE
COUNCIL 45
[NA:SF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.: C*]
[September 2, 1822)
To His Excellency James Munroe President of the United States.—
Your Memorialists, constituting the Legislative Council of the
Territory of Florida, beg leave to submit to the President of the
United States, a statement of the prominent subjects of general
interest to the inhabitants of this Territory for which they have been
appointed to Legislate, and in the destinies of which they feel a deep'
public and individual interest.
The Legislative Council will approach the topics, to which they
would most respectfully solicit your attention with that frank-
ness and sincerity which Citizens have the pride and satisfaction to
assume in addressing the chief magistrate of our grand confederacy;
and through him the Congress of the United States. After a long and
protracted negotiation the United States acquired the Floridas, an
acquisition which it was then supposed would form one of the bright-
est epochs in the history of the distinguished administration that
negotiated and the Congress that sanctioned the treaty of Cession,
and enable the ceded inhabitants with the influx of population and
wealth, to fulfil the high destiny to which the God of nature seemed
to have assigned this highly favoured Country. Candour however
obliges us to say that the act of Congress, for the Organazation of
the Government of this Territory, although caſlou]lated to remedy
many of the defects of the provincial establishment from which it
was lately emancipated, was nevertheless not so favorable as we had
a right to expect, when we contemplate the value of the acquisition,
the commercial and agricultural advantages of the Country, its soils,
bays, rivers and harbours, its important resources and energies when
developed and called into action and above all its exposed situation
possessing a coast of twelve hundred miles, constituting the natural
boundary of the most important part of the Union and liable to the
incursions of any foreign invader or lawless domestic enemy, whose
cupidity and enterprizing avarice might lead them to desolate our
towns and plunder our spare population. Your Memorialists do
not in the remotest degree, charge the neglect to a want of that careful
** The message with which the President transmitted this memorial to the
Senate is present and dated Jan. 3, 1823. Inasmuch as the Journals (Senate
Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 123 and House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 191)
give the date as Feb. 3, 1823, it is suggested that the President jotted down the
wrong month in the date line. See also Richardson (comp.), Messages and
Papers, II, 769.
** A copy is in NA (HF, Orig. Messages Pres., 17 Cong., 2 sess.); printed in S.
Doc. 27, 17 Cong., 2 sess.; H. Doc. 53, 17 Cong. 2 sess.; A.S.P., Misc., II,
1025–1027.



522 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
and provident attention to the interests of the native and adopted
Citizens of the United States which has always characterized the policy
of those who are intrusted with the Guardianship of our rights,
but a want of the requisite information in regard to the necessities
and wants of our Territory, deprived as it has been of representation
to Congress.
The first subject to which we would particularly invite your atten-
tion and that of the Congress of the United States, is one of as much
national concern, as solicitude in reference to the immediate pros-
perity of this Territory—It will be recollected that the late government
of Spain over these provinces considered East and West Florida, as
two distinct dependancies, from a Connexion of which they could
discover no immediate benefit to Spain and consequently the settle-
ments were confined to the vicinity of Sº Augustine and Pensacola
more particularly in West Florida where the settlement of the Country
was circumscribed by an apprehension of Indian hostility the effect
has been to prevent the establishment of a road, from the Capitals
of the above provinces to each other, or to the interior; and as we are
at present situated the nearest practicable road from one to the other
by land, is seven hundred and fifty Miles, through Alabama and Geor-
gia, and the water communication round the Cape is as difficult as a
trip to Liverpool or Bourdeaux—a conclusion however unfavorable to
the conjunction of the two provinces in a Territory or State, Cannot
be drawn from this fact, the distance not being more than three
hundred and fifty or four hundred miles, through a healthy fine
Country, a large proportion of which your Memorialists are induced
to believe for fertility is not surpassed by any land in the Southern
Country, a slight view of the geographical situation of the Country,
its local and political connexion with the United States, will demon-
strate the policy and necessity of preserving the connexion of the
Floridas, and also dictate the propriety of laying out a road from
Pensacola to Sº Augustine from which our government in addition
to the lasting improvement of her Territory for the labour and
expence, will derive more than an equivalent from the sale of public
lands, which will be much inhanced in value by such an improve-
ment. Your memorialists would therefore request that your excel-
lency would direct some intelligent Officers of the Engineer Corps,
to explore the country and mark out a road from Pensacola to S'
Augustine” and adopt such measures as to your Excellency may seem
fit, to have the same opened in Conformity with their report and also
that they be directed to solicit some suitable place, in the Mickasuky
Country or on the Suwanny River or the adjacent Country for the
47 See acts approved Mar. 3, 1823, 3 STAT. 765, and Feb. 28, 1824, 4 STAT.
5–6.



FLO RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 523
permanent seat of Government of Florida” and make report thereof
to the Governor of this Territory to be laid before the next Legis-
lative Council. Whilst we are on the subject of the Establishment
of public roads, so nearly Connected with the growth, wealth and
prosperity of this Territory, we would also take the liberty to recom-
mend to the General Government the necessisty and practibility of
opening the road from Sº Augustine into Georgia known by the appella-
tion of the Kings road,” which was open'd at great expence by the
British Government, and could at this time be reopened with very
little labour and will afford a communication to facilitate the enter-
course between that part of the Territory and the Southern States—
the establishment of this road was deemed an object of the utmost
importance to the province of East Florida by the British Govern-
ment, Your Memorialists are induced to believe that the policy
and necessity of such measure will be more strongly felt by the
Government of the United States.
Your Memorialists would beg leave particularly to direct the
attention of the Congress of the United States to the necessity of
erecting light Houses at Pensacola and Sº Augustine” and also to
provide some law upon the subject of wrecking at the penensula of
Florida,” which is now in the hands of foreigners, and subject to the
absolute controul of the colonies of Great Britain and Spain, and is
frequently made the pretext for Piracy and smuggling.
Another subject to which the Legislative Council will call the
attention of Congress is the organization of the judiciary in this
Territory, by reference to the Act of Congress” it will be found that
two District Courts are established, one in East and the other in
West Florida, those courts are vested with jurisdiction in civil and crim-
inal cases without an appeal from their decisions to any other tribunal,
only when they entertain jurisdiction in their Federal Capacity, it
follows therefore that the act of Congress have vested in one Judge
power over the lives, liberties and properties of the Citizens of this
Territory without providing for an appeal or writ of error to Correct
a Judgment rendered by misconception of the law, partiality, or
judicial impetuosity, whatever confidence we may repose in the
virtues of our Judges, or the upright integrity of the American Bench,
* See act approved May 24, 1824, 4 STAT. 30.
* See act approved Mar. 2, 1827, 4 STAT. 227.
* The act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 780) provided $5,000 for finishing
the lighthouse at St. Augustine and $6,000 for building one at Pensacola. A
description of the unfinished tower on the northeast side of Anastasia Island,
which was to be completed as a lighthouse by means of this appropriation, is in
Reuben Loring to Joseph M. Hernandez, Dec. 2, 1822 (NA, HF, 17 Cong., 2
sess.).
* See act approved Mar. 3, 1825, 3 STAT. 132–133.
*Ante, p. 389.



524 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Your memorialists conceive that it is a novel and dangerous power,
inconsistent with the policy of our government, and contrary to the
usual course in relation to all other Territories, in all of which if they
are not mistaken three judges have been appointed who were required
to hold Courts in different parts of the Territories, and once or twice
a year hold a court of Errors and appeals, in all cases arising under
the Territorial laws. Two Judges are incompetent to form such a
connective tribunal. to supply the deficiencies in the judiciary system
as regulated by the act of Congress the Legislative Council con-
sidered it incumbent upon them to establish inferior Courts” as a
temporary expedient making it the duty of the Judges of the Inferior
Courts to hold pleas in the Several Counties with an appeal from their
decision to the District Court of the United States: we believe this
course to be indispensible to the convenience of large settlements
remote from Sº Augustine and Pensacola, a contrary policy would
have subjected them to great inconvenience and in many instances
would have been tantamount to a denial of justice, We considered
it necessary to prevent Crime by its speedy punishment, to restrain
the refractory, to protect the weak from the oppression of the strong,
and thus to insure virtue and humanity among our Citizens, and
accomplish the great end of society, the happiness of the people—
The salaries of the Judges of the Inferior Courts amount to two
thousand four hundred Dollars, and as we are in the first grade of
Territorial government, we have reason to expect that Congress will
make an appropriation of that sum—and also provide for the appoint-
ment of another Judge to reside at the seat of Government, which
will do away the necessity of a longer Continuance of the Inferior
Courts.”
There is another topic of considerable interest and magnitude to
this Territory and the United States upon which your memorialists
would respectfully express their opinions on the present occasion. In
consequence of the great extent of sea Coast by which Florida is
bounded, and the consequent exposure to which she is subjected, the
speedy settlement of the Country will readily present itself to your
excellency as an object of the most important consideration. In order
to give that strength and security to Territories thus peculiarly
situated, emigration should be invited to them by every advisable
means, within the controul of the General Government. To accomplish
this desirable purpose it may be considered of the first moment, that
the claims to land of every description should be promptly ascer-
tained and adjusted.—Upon this subject your Memorialists would
with all the respect and Confidence due to the Constituted Authorities
* Farris, “Courts of Terr. Fla.” (Fla. Hist. Quar., xix, 347).
* A court of appeals was established by an act approved May 26, 1824 (4
STAT., 45–47).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 525
of the Union, recommend that the powers of the Commissioners
should be inlarged, relative to claims upon which they are authorized to
pronounce a final decision.” Your Memorialists would also suggest
the propriety of referring the larger grants to the investigation and
determination of the Judicial Tribunals.” Were the existence of this
power thus vested in our courts, and transferred from our national
Councils it is confidently believed, that much expence would be
avoided as well as more ample and speedy Justice administered to all
parties concerned. The members of the judiciary residing in the
Territory and having obtained an acquaintance with the laws and
ordinances of the government from which the claims emenated, they
must necessarily be much better qualified to pronounce an opinion
than any tribunal differently constituted; from the decissions of the
courts here an appeal might be given to the Supreme Court, and thus
the validity of titles decided by the constitutional arbiter the judiciary
which would eminently Contribute to secure the rights of the United
States and the claimants.
Untill these difficulties are obviated it cannot be expected that
emigration should be successfully directed to the Territory of Florida,
large tracts of land are in some places covered by private claims, before
the proprietors can make any permanent disposition of them to
settlers, by which a dense and efficient population can be obtained it is
indispensably necessary that they should be free from all incumbrance
and litigation. This end can be most speedily, cheaply and certainly
accomplished by the judicial Tribunals of our Country.—Next to
bringing the public lands into market at an eaſtly period, your Memo-
rialists consider the prompt and fiſna]l decision of land claims as an
object of the highest Consideration, upon it, not only depends the
growth and prosperity of this Territory, but the effectation of these
valuable purposes for which the United States obtained their Cession
by the late Treaty with Spain.
In conclusion your Memorialists would beg leave to represent to
your Excellency the superior advantages of the Harbour of Pensacola
over any other in the Gulph of Mexico south of New Orleans and
suggest the policy of selecting it as a Naval Depot by the government
of the United States,” although engineers have been appointed to
make a survey of the harbour who are amply competent to form a
correct estimate of its importance; yet it is to be hoped, that the
suggestions of your Memorialists may not be considered obtrusive
but received with complacency as the offspring of a lively interest in
the welfare of this Territory and of the United States.
* See post, p. 553, n. -
* Such referral for judicial determination was finally provided for by an act
approved May 23, 1828 (4 STAT. 285); see also H. R. S., Fla., Spanish Land
Grants, II, li-lii.
* See act approved Mar. 3, 1825, 4 STAT. 127.



526 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P.A. P. E. R. S.
From a survey that has been made of the Harbour of Pensacola
under the orders of the general Government, it is understood by your
Memorialists that at the lowest water vessels drawing not more than
twenty one and a half feet may cross the Bar and enter the harbour
with perfect safety, the medium depth of water between the highest
and lowest tide may be confidently estimated at two additional feet
making in the aggregate twenty three and a half feet.—It is believed
from the best advice which has been obtained upon the subject, that
this depth of water on the Bar is sufficient for the entrance of vessels
of any description, save those of the largest class; the locality of the
bay is likewise such as to secure every facility to the entrance and de-
parture of vessels. The opposite extremes of its oblong form extends
in a Northeastwardly and southwesterly direction, which happily cor-
responds with the general range of winds so as to subject vessels to
very little delay in their arrival and departure. After Wessels have
entered the bay they have every assurance of the most perfect security
even in the most violent gales, it is completely land locked by main
land and the Island of S' Rosa, it uncommonly capacious and its bot-
tom affording a stiff tenacious clay constituting a safe and excellent
anchorage. From S' Carlos De Barrancas to the opposite point of
S' Rosa's Island is computed to be about three fourths of a Mile, with
suitable fortifications at those two opposite positions, it is confidently
believed by military Gentlemen of science who have visited them and
expressed an opinion that no vessel could pass into the Bay without
receiving a fatal injury, the guns of both fortifications could be brought
to bear upon it with so much Certainty and effect as to insure destruc-
tion. Every examination which has been made of these commanding
stations has resulted in the decided opinion that it can be much more
easily defended than any other on the Gulph, if not on the whole of
the Atlantic Coast. A faithful Topography of Pensacola and the ad-
jacent Country will demonstrate that it may be very effectually pro-
tected from the inroads of the enemy by land. In the rear of the
Town at [a] distance of about half a mile the high lands are present[ed]
upon which Military works may be constructed to advantage so as
completely to command the whole space intervening between them
and the bay. A Single fortification strongly and Judiciously built
would successfully bear upon the entrance into the Town in every
direction, there is probably no other station on the Southern Coast,
which could be defended by land with so small a number of Troops
or at less expence. Independently of the facility with which Pensacola
may be defended, if reliance is exclusively reposed in regular troops.
There are other prominent considerations which powerfully recom-
mend to the attention of the General Government this results from
its immediate connexion with New Orleans, and its contiguity with
most of the States on the Mississippi River, in cases of emergency



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 527
and invasion should it become necessary to call the aid of the Militia
for the protection of this place they can be readily obtained from
Louisiana Mississippi, Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama owing to
an advantage from a water Communication, they may be conveyed
to Pensacola in a short time, and comparatively with small expence
to the General Government; Your Memorialists are induced to believe
that half of the expenditures of the late war were included in the item
of transportation much would be saved on this score were Pensacola
selected as a Naval station not only in the transportation of Soldiery
but also in provisions and Munitions of War. This desirable object
would be more completely accomplished should ever a Communication
be opened between the Bay of Pensacola and the Mississippi and
Mobille rivers; Another prominent advantage in favor of Pensacola
which gives it elevated claims on the patronage of the Government
is that it is distinguished for the salubrity of atmosphere and mildness
of climate it is a situation where the troops may always calculate on
enjoying good health, and where it is represented that breadstuffs and
other provisions continue almost as long in a perfect state of preserva-
tion as in most of the northern ports of the United States.
In addition to this your memorialists will take the present occasion
to remark that a military force stationed at Pensacola, would in time
of war give efficient aid in the defence of New Orleans as well as addi-
tional security to Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama by presenting
a formidable barrier by which inroads through West Florida would
be checked and prevented. This assistance could not with any cer-
tainty be obtained from Tampa Bay, and no other position it is be-
lieved can be selected south of Pensacola which promises the other
important advantages, we have described in Consequence of it
remaining a great distance from a dense population and the difficulties
of transportation, it cannot be so Conveniently connected with the
adjoining States and must rely for defence almost entirely upon regular
troops a much larger number of which will be necessarily required.
The occupation of Pensacola with the necessary fortifications is cal-
culated to afford a more complete command over the commerce of the
Gulph of Mexico than any other position which could be selected on
the southern Coast; with this peculiar advantage, the united states
would exclude the shipping of an enemy probably from the only port
in Florida in which they could anchor with safety owing to the violence
of the West India Gales, Your Memorialists are of the opinion that
there is no other Harbour save that of the Havanna in which they
could ride with security during a storm. But the benefits arising from
the selection of [Pen]sacola as a Naval Statioſn] are not entirely of
a negative] character, we should not only be enabled to exclude the
hostile Armaments of Foreign Nations but our own Wessels could be
protected from capture and disaster; the Harbour of Pensacola will



528 T E R RI To RIAL PAPERS
always be a place of Secure retreat, a station from which expeditions
may be fitted out without interruption and from which the West
India commerce of an enemy might receive the most successfull annoy-
ance. Were New Orleans assailed, Pensacola would be competent
to afford Cooperation for its defence both by land and water which
could not fail to excite in the enemy the most fearful apprehensions;
by our vigorous and well directed efforts her commerce would be cut
off, her detatchments Captured and in the end her surrender and
retreat accomplished, the security of this place then is believed by
Your Memorialists to be inseperably connected with the prosperity
and defence of New Orleans and the Contiguous States. We there-
fore pray the attention of your Excellency to the subjects upon which
we have taken the liberty to remark and be assured that those who
give a different Account of our Territory are ignorant of its resources
or wantonly misrepresent it.
Resolved by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida,
That the Governor of this Territory be requested to forward a Copy
of the foregoing Memorial to the President of the United States and
that another Copy be delivered to the deligate * who may be elected
to represent this Territory in Congress of the United States at their
next Session
EDMUND LAW
president of the Legislative Council
Teste
ROBERT MITCHELL clerk of the Legislative Council
Sept; 2nd 1822–
* Section 14 of the act approved Mar. 30, 1822 (ante, p. 389), organizing the
government of the Territory of Florida, provided for the election of one Dele-
gate to Congress. According to an act of the Legislative Council of Aug. 12,
1822 (Fla. Acts, 1822, pp. 9–12), all free, white, male inhabitants of the Territory
over 21 years of age who were in Florida at the time of the cession or who resided
there at the time of the passage of the act were to vote on the last Monday of
September. Joseph Marion (José Mariano) Hernandez was elected and upon
taking the oath administered by the Speaker of the House of Representatives on
Jan. 3, 1823, he took his seat (House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 95). As in
the case of Delegates from other territories, in accordance with the provision of
the Ordinance of 1787, the Delegate had the right of debating but not of voting.
He presented the needs of the territory not only to the Congress but also to the
President and the heads of the executive departments. Born in St. Augustine
in 1792, Hernandez had been a public figure during the Spanish regime and upon
the transfer of the country had become a citizen of the United States. He owned
a plantation 20 miles south of St. Augustine. He served as delegate only until
Mar. 3, 1823, but he subsequently held a number of positions of importance in
the Territory. The territorial act of Mar. 30, 1822, in allowing the time and
place of voting for the delegate and the qualifications of the voters to be estab-
lished by the Governor and the Legislative Council (sec. 12), extended a greater
measure of local autonomy than had hitherto been granted to territories. See
Everett S. Brown, The Territorial Delegate to Congress and Other Essays (Ann
Arbor, 1950), p. 12.



FL, OR I. D A T E R RITOR Y 529
GOVERNOR DUVAL AND OTHERS TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd. :LS)
PENSACOLA Sep 3* 1822
SIR, The Governor and Legislative Council beg leave to recommend
to your Excellency Richard K. Call. and Jos M Hernandez, as persons
well qualified to fill the offices of Brigadier General, the former in
West, the latter in East Florrida.” They believe that those appoint-
ments will meet with general approbation—and will be particularly
gratifying to—
Respected Sir, Your obt Servants—
JOS. M. WHITE Wm P. DUVAL
WILL REYNOLDS GEO: MURRAY
JNO, MILLER G. A. GAITHER
EDMUND LAW
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe City of Washington
[Postmarked] Pensacola 9. Sep. Free
[Endorsed] Pensacola 3 Sep" 1822 Richard K. Call Jos: M. Her-
nandez. R by the Govr. & Council as Brigadier General's of Militia,
the former for the West, the latter for East Florida's De 13, 1822 3.
Sept. 1822. Duval Governor & others Recommend Richard K. Call
as Brigadier General in West Florida and Joseph M. Hernandez as
Brigadier General in East Florida. Pensacola P: & L. Council Recom-
mend R. Call as Brigr Genl.
RECOMMENDATION OF WATERS SMITH AS U. S. MARSHAL
(EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Applications:DS)
[September 3, 1822)
To HIS EXCELLENCY JAMES MONROE, President of the United States.
We the Subscribers, inhabitants of St Augustine E. F., being this
day informed, that W. G. D. Worthington Esqr has resigned the office
of U. S. Marshall for this Territory, beg leave to recommend to Your
Excellency, for that office, M* Waters Smith in whose talents, integrity
and ability we have the fullest confidence; and at the same time beg
leave to state that his appointment will give general satisfaction to the
citizens of East Florida
** An act organizing the militia of the territory was passed by the Legislative
Council on Sept. 13, 1822. By this act all able-bodied, free, white, male in-
habitants between the ages of 18 and 45 years were declared liable to perform
militia service. The nominations of Call and Hernandez were submitted to the
Senate by the President on Jan. 15, 1823 and were confirmed on Feb. 17 (Senate,
Erec. Journal, III, 324, 333). An entry of the issuance of the commissions is in
NA (WD, AGO, Reg. of Comms. Distributed, VI), but copies of the commissions
are not available.
301867–57–85



530 T E R R. I TOR I.A. L. PA PERS
ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. 3rd Septbr 1822
Tho. H. Penn. Horatio S Dexter
Sam' James Seymour Elias Wallen
Jn” Drysdale H. Crosthwaite
f: J: fatio. Edward R. Gibson
L” Fleming Wm. G Davis
Antonio Alvarez W H Simmons.
Jn.” Du'Bose S. Streeter
John Rodman R. D. Jourolmon
Joseph M. Hernandez James S. Tingle
William Travers Rich" Murray
Franco P. Sanchez Elias B Gould
G. W. Perpall John L. Doggett
Geo: Gibbs - John M. Fontane
J. G. Forbes John A. Cavedo
Bernardo Segui R. D. Fontane
|Addressed] To His Excellency John Quincy Adams Secretary of
State Washington City [Postmarked] St Augustine 3 Sept 1822 Free
[Endorsed] 3 Sept. 1822. Sundry Inhabitants of Sº Augustine Ent
Recommend Waters Smith as Marshal in East Florida.”
ELIAS B. GOULD 61 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE 4* Sept. 1822.
HoN. JoHN QUINCY ADAMS
SIR-Having just commenced a weekly newspaper here, with the
approbation of the citizens of this place, I make respectful application
to be appointed publisher of the laws of the United States for this
territory and hope with my appointment, if you should be pleased
to make it, you will be pleased to instruct me what laws are to con-
sidered as necessary to be published. Every support will be given to
the principles of the administration.”
E B Gould, Editor
“East Florida Herald”
* See post, p. 623.
* A native of New Jersey, Elias B. Gould, had conducted a printing business
in Newark, N. J., lived in New York from 1810 to 1818 or 1819, and had moved
from Charleston, S. C., to St. Augustine in 1822 (Knauss, Terr. Fla. Journalism,
17, 59).
* Reply, if any, not found. Cf. post, p. 585.



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 531
Waters Smith is an applicant for Marshal he has, as far as I am
acquainted with individual opinion, the confidence of every citizen.
[Addressed] Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washington
[Postmarked] Chals" SC Sep 14 Free
[Endorsed] Gould E B Sº Augustine 4 Sep" 1822 desires to publish
the laws in his Paper
-
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Don Emanuel Gonzals sixteen
miles from Pensacola Septr 10* 1822
DEAR SIR. It is with deep sorrow that I annouce to you the death
of my friends Doctº Bronaugh and Mº Harrison, late Attorney for the
United States on the 10° of August the yellow fever commenced in
Pensacola with dreadful distruction—Very few of the great number
that have been taken down, have recovered—Capt Simms” from
Alexandria is also dead, I believe he held the appointment of Navy
agent at Pensacola
The best and most inteligent part of our American population has
already fallen victims to this distructive fever—No hope is entertained
of its abatement untill frost, which will not commence untill the last of
October
I lived with my friend Doct" Bronaugh in Col" Waltons family, It
is almost a wonder that I escaped—for every member of his family has
been or is now down with the fever except himself and his venerable
mother I fear he will take the fever, and expect every day to hear this
distressing inteligence
The Spanish inhabitants stand it much better than our own people—
not that they are exempt, for many of them have been, and now are
sick—but few have yet died. The Legislative Counsel are at this
place, their labours are nearly at a close—Judge Breckenridge is well—
having quit the City some weeks since, no court will be held in
Pensacola untill november, and as yet none has been held—I pray you
sir to appoint Capt—Richard K. Call the Attorney for the united
States in West Florida, I assure you this gentleman is well quallified
for the office, he is a young man of talents, and gives great attention to
his business, he has the best practice as a Lawyer in Pensacola, and
has the intire confidence of the Americans and Spaniards The
appointment will be most gratifying to the People of Florida to Gen.'
Jackson and myself, I make this application without the consent or
* William Douglass Simms, whose nomination for the appointment as navy
agent at Pensacola of Apr. 14, 1822, was withdrawn by the President on May 7
(Senate Exec. Journal, III, 293, 308).



532 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
knowledge of Capt. Call—because if he obtains the appointment he
may feel, that his former disappointment for the same station, was
not occasioned by any want of merit on his part, or objection to him
on yours."—The Spanish inhabitants of this country are the best even
among the most quiet and orderly of our own citizens
The distresses occasioned in Pensacola by the fever cannot be
discribed, poor little children, without parents or friends are thrown
on the charity of strangers we have not a cent to relieve the wretched
The Spanish citizens act nobley, they have done and continue to do all
in their power to relieve the sick Americans many of whom are taken
to houses and nursed with the utmost kindness
I have no funds either to pay the expence incident to the sitting
of the Legislative Counsel or to pay for the printing of the Laws
of the Territory—altho, the act of Congress directs me to publish
them, Is their no funds that can be used for these Objects I have
written several times to M* Adams on these subjects but as yet
have received no answer *
I am with sentiments of Esteem yours
Wºm P. DUVAL
JAMES MONROE. Esq
[Addressed) James Monroe President of the U States private
[Endorsed] Duval Wm. P. Manuel's near Pensacola 10th Sep 1822.
Recd 13 November. recommends Rich" K. Call as Dist Atto.
Distress of the Inhabitants of the Country &c.—Sep 10. 1822 gov"
Duvall receiva Novº 13th
t-
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GAD HUMPHREYS
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR 18* September 1822.
CoL GAD HUMPHREYS Indian Agent Marcellus N. Y.
Sir, Your letter of the 9” instant has been received.”
I am glad to find that you will be prepared to take your departure
for Florida by the 18* of next month at furthest. You will by no
* Not appointed.
* The Governor wrote a briefer letter of similar import to the Secretary of
State, Sept. 9, 1822 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.), stating that in addition to Bronaugh
and Harrison, Judge Shannon had also fallen to the plague. See also a clipping
from the Florida Gazette, St. Augustine, Oct. 20, 1821 (NA, SF), which states
that the epidemic had been brought from Havana by two vessels, the Alexander
and the Rapid, which had stopped off on their way north.
* NA(WD, SW Lets. Recd., G 71). The Secretary of War, not having re-
ceived an answer to his letter of Aug. 19 to Humphreys (ante, p. 509), wrote him
again on Sept. 11 to inform him that unless the department was notified of his
departure for Florida by Oct. 1 he would be considered as having resigned (NA,
OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 533
means delay it beyond that period, as the Governor has appointed a
meeting with the Indians at S*Marks. on the 20" November next,”
and it is indispensable that you should be at your post as soon as
practicable, in order to make such preliminary arrangements for the
meeting as the Governor may deem necessary. You will forward
your bond previous to your departure.”
J. C. C.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Recd., D 52:LS)
DON EMANUEL GONZALEZ' 15 miles from Pensacola Sept 22° 1822.
HoN' JoHN C CALHOUN Secretary at war
SIR. I have the honor to acknowledge your letter of the 19* of
August with several inclosures,” containing extracts of letters from
Gen' Jackson of the date of Sept 20° 1821 *—An extract of a letter
from Cap" J. R. Bell dated the 224 April 1822"—and a copy of a
letter from yourself to Co' Eustace at S*Augustine * and also a copy
of your letter to Col Humphreys Indian Agent dated the 19* August
1822 * and a copy of a list of articles and stores belonging to the
United States' Indian Department, left in the charge of Edmund M
Wanton and delivered over to Charles Vignoles April 12* 1822 as
appears from the said list. -
From the information which I have obtained from that part of
the Country lying between the Suwanny and the Alochua, now in-
habited by the Indians, I have little doubt it is the richest and most
valuable part of all Florida—in fact there are no bodies of good land
in either East or West Florida but in that region of country—It will
be a serious misfortune to this Territory if the Indians are permitted
to occupy this tract of country—It will sustain a larger population
than all Florida beside, and from the sale of the lands in that quarter
only can the United States hope to realize the money which they paid
for Florida—If that country is ceded to the Indians, Florida can be
of no importance except only for its few sea ports. The view of your
Department in relation to the Indians in Florida, “that they should
join the Creek Indians in Georgia” ought if possible to be carried into
effect; for place them in any situation you may in Florida, they can
at any time cut off the communication between Pensacola and Sº
Augustine, for owing to the particular face of the Country, the com-
* See post, p. 548.
* See post, p. 598.
* Ante, p. 508.
** Ante, p. 210.
ºn Ante, p. 409.
* Ante, p. 512.
* Ante, p. 509.



534 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
munication between the two places must be high up in Florida in
order to pass the various streams that flow into the Gulph—If Congress
will not agree to move the Florida Indians to the Upper Creeks, to
whom they properly belong, they ought to be sent West of the Missis-
sippi—no treaty ought to be made with them until the country they
occupy has been properly explored “–I hope that you will not act
at all in this business until it is submitted to Congress, for if you were
to authorize this fall a Treaty to be held with the Indians, owing to
the sickly state of New Orleans, Pensacola and Fort S* Marks, the
proper supplies for the Treaty could not be had in time, as it will be
December before health will be restored to those places—I shall
however direct the Indians to be assembled according to your desire
but hope that no treaty will be held with them until this subject is
farther investigated.
My private affairs which I have neglected for more than a year,
since I have been in public employment, demand my return to Ken-
tucky and I expect to leave this place in a few days, you will therefore
be pleased to address your communications to the Secretary of this
Territory, Co' George Walton.”
With Sentiments of high Respect and esteem I am your ob" Serº
Wm P. DUVAL
[Endorsed] His Excelly Duvall—W" P. 15 Miles from Pensacola
Sep 22, 1822 Has rec" sundry letters from the Dept—Relative to
that part of Country in Florida lying between the Suwanny and
Alochua, The view of the Department is correct that the Florida
Indians should join the Creeks—&° &" &"
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
Don Manuel Gonzalez’
15 miles from Pensacola Sept’ 22° 1822–
HON' JoHN QINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 20" of August,” and also the receipt of a Commission to John
De La Rua and Joseph Noriega as Members of the Legislative Council
* For a similar view, see Joseph M. White to the Secretary of War, Dec. 1, 1822
(NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd. W 151), printed, H. Doc. 51, 17 Cong., 2 sess., and
A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 411. Regarding the destitute condition of the Indians,
necessitating the issuance of rations to them at Ft. St. Marks, see John R. Fen-
wick to the Secretary of War, Mar. 6, 1822 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., F 100);
George N. Morris, commander at the fort, to the Secretary of War, May 2 and
Aug. 2, 1822 (loc. cit., M 378, M 56).
* Answered post, p. 554. See also post, p. 547.
"Ante, p. 510,



FLORIDA. T E R RI TOR Y 535
of Florida.” The Council adjourned on the 18* Inst. having some
time before adjourned to this place from Pensacola on account of the
yellow fever, and I am sorry to add, that Doc” J. C. Bronough Presi-
dent of the Council and the chief clerk John Coppinger Connor have
fallen victims to this disease—almost all the American population of
Pensacola have died.
It being impossible to publish the Laws of this Territory according
to the act of Congress and distribute the same without the funds for
this purpose—I shall be under the necessity of drawing upon you to
meet these objects for the printer here has not funds to carry on the
work unless I become responsible to those on whom he must depend
for credit for the necessary materials. The necessary expences of the
Legislative Council including the rent of a room, stationary, Clerk
hire, tables &c must be paid forthwith as they are claims that will not
admit of delay—I do not believe that the printing and distribution of
the Laws together with every other incidental expense occasioned by
the Council, will exceed three thousand three hundred dollars—I make
this estimate from the several amounts fixed by the Legislative
Council for clerk hire, printing &c. which I know to be unusually moder-
ate—It will be a saving to the Government to permit the accounts to
be settled by the governor or secretary, as they know what each
individual is entitled to-I do not hesitate to assure you that whenever
the individuals send on their accounts to you, from this Territory,
they never fail to make them more than equal to their services—this
I believe to be the fact, except in the case of the Secretary Co' Walton,
who, in my humble opinion ought to be allowed at least six hundred
dollars more than his account rendered to you—There are many
small claims for services due to various individuals in East Florida—
and there are still existing claims here, for confining and maintaining
prisoners in jail, for which no compensation has ever been made to
the jailer—a similar claim also exists in East Florida—and both at
Pensacola and Sº Augustine rooms have been rented for the purpose
77 In accordance with the organic act of Mar. 30, 1822 (ante, p. 389), the acts
of the Legislative Council were regularly printed in pamphlet form throughout
the territorial period. For checklist, see Theodore L. Cole (comp.), “Bibliog-
raphy of the Statute Law of the Southern States, Florida,” Southern Hist. Assn.
Pubs., I (July 1897), pp. 213–214; see also U. S. Library of Congress, Guide to the
Microfilm Collection of Early State Records, “Session Laws,” p. 51. In 1838 the
Legislative Council authorized a collection of the laws, which was prepared by
John P. Duval and published under the title Compilation of the Public Acts of the
Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, Passed Prior to 1840 (Tallahassee,
1839). The original enrolled acts are in the custody of the Fla. Secretary of
State. By law the Governor was required to send copies of the acts to the
President for the approval of Congress (ante, p. 391), but nothing like a complete
file can now be found in the National Archives. A complete set of the printed
statutes for the territorial period is in the Laws section of the Library of Congress.



536 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA PERS
of holding Courts, and as offices for the Clerks—I would submit it
therefore, sir to you, whether it is not the interest of the Government
to place funds in the hands of the Governor of this Territory to dis-
charge these claims as I am sure it will be done for much less when
the Governor himself looks into the accounts and examines the
claims, than if the claimants were paid at the seat of Government—
should you think with me on this subject and authorize me to draw
on you for this purpose, I will take care that no exorbitant or im-
proper claim shall be paid and that proper vouchers shall be taken
and returned to you, shewing specifically how the funds have been
applied.
I have the pleasure to inform you that the Spanish inhabitants are
daily becoming more and more satisfied with our Government, and
that throughout the Territory the utmost order and harmony prevail
among the old and new inhabitants. The code of Laws enacted by
the Legislative Council, I believe well calculated for the situation of
the Territory.
I have made it my business to conciliate as far as my duty would
permit the Spanish inhabitants, and I believe have succeeded.
In the distribution of the various little offices of the Territory, I
have given to the ancient inhabitants wherever I found them qualified
their due proportion—I trust that this course will meet the approba-
tion of the President and yourself.
The Civil Government of the Territory is now pretty well organized,
and I am now endeavouring under our late law to place the Militia on
a respectable footing, which I expect to finish in a few days.
An absence from Kentucky, where my family resides, for a year
past, with the exception of ten days last spring on my way to Pensa-
cola has occasioned me some serious pecuniary losses, it therefore
becomes indispensible that I should return to Kentucky to arrange
my private affairs, before I go on to S*Augustine where the Legislative
Council is to meet in the spring, this I would not do, if my presence
was likely to be necessary before my return "–You will be pleased
therefore in my absence to address your communications to Co'
George Walton.
With sentiments of high Respect and Esteem I am your Ob"Sev"
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon' John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washing-
ton [Postmarked] Claiborne. A. Oct 2 free
[Endorsed] Duval, W* P.-Govt of Florida—Don Emanuel Gon-
zales', 15 Miles from Pensacola, 22 Sept. 1822 Rec". 20 Oct. Legisla-
tive Council (Com” rec" &c.)—Death of Dr Bronaugh, &c. &c.—
Expenditures—proper that the Gov' receive & settle acc”—Tran-
quillity of the province—Will be absent—address Col. Geo. Walton—
* Answered post, p. 560. See also post, p. 554.



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 537
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Don Emanuel Gonzales
15” miles from PENSACOLA Septr. 23* 1822
HONBE. J. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State—
I have to inform you that Joseph M. White Esq. who was a member
of the Legislative Counsel at the instance of the counsel and myself
determined not resign his seat in the counsel—for fear we could not
make a board—it was fortunate that he did not for other wise we
could not have done any buisness so that Mr. Whites resignation is
to be accepted as of this date at the time I wote you that he had
resigned his seat—Mr White had so stated to me but the next day
he was induced for the reasons, I have mentioned to retain his seat—
This I believe I apprised you of, by the mail after my first letter to
you on this subject, but such has been the distressed state of the
City, that I am not certain whither all my communications have
been transmitted regularly to you, the Post Office is moved out of
the City two miles—and I am often compelled to send for my letters—
and transmit my communications by any person that happens to
pass this place, I trust however that Mr. Lara” and Noriego will
be members of the next counsel, they are most worthy inteligent and
valuable citizens”
The counsel is to meet next Spring in St. Augustine—I am well
satisfy" that nether myself nor the Secretary can move about in this
way—on double the salerys now allowed to us
I hope Congress will do something at the next session about fixing
permanantly the seat of Gov" in this Territory”—
I am with high respect & Esteem Your obt Svt
Wm P DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” J. Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] Duval, W* P.-Govt of Florida–Don Emanuel Gon-
zales', 15 miles from Pensacola, 23 Sept. 1822 Rec". 20 Oct. J. M.
White's resignation postponed to this date—Mess” Lara & Noriega
recommended—His Salary (& the Secy's) inadequate—hopes Congress
will remedy-–
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA Septr 25* 1822
HONLE. JOHN QUNCEY ADAMS Secretary of State
I have this day drawn on you a draft for Three thousand three
hundred Dollars, to meet the expence of printing the laws of this
7° de la Rua. See post, p. 629,
* See post, p. 640.
* No acknowledgment found.



538 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Territory and the incidental expences of the Legislative Counsel,
As it was not in my power to negocate this draft I have placed the
same in hands of the Secretary Col" Walton, to dispose of so, as to
meet the above expences
I hope that under the peculiar situation of our Territory—that you
will take up the draft—I would not have ventured to have drawn on
you if I could have published and distributed the laws—without
taking this step—I shall leave this in a day or two for Kentucky and
you will therefore adress your communications to Col" George Walton,
as Acting Governor
I have the honor to remain your Obt. Sevt.
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon' John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Duval Wm. P. Pensacola, 25 Sep 1822 Recd 23 Nov.
notice of a Dft.
DUNCAN L. CLINCH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:LS)
CAMP HOPE 5th October 1822
SIR, In the last Communication I had the honor to make to the
office under your direction—I stated that in relation to the Cantoning
of the Regiment under my Command, I should await the further in-
structions of the Department of War—Since that however, additional
reasons have Occurred, as will appear from the enclosed report* from
Doctor M M M*Mahon (who I have been Compelled to detach to the
Barancas in Consequence of the illness of Doctor Merrill)* to induce a
belief that the Department will not hesitate One moment in directing
the Cantonment for the 4* Infantry ordered on a site near this place—
and as the winter is fast approaching, I have thought it advisable to
Commence getting the materials for the Cantonment without delay—
On Monday next I shall order the Battalion of Infantry Cantoned at
the Barancas to a position near this Camp, and put them under
temporary sheds, having no tents, and erect a temporary Hospital
for the Sick—The Infantry Cantonment will answer for Quarters, a
Hospital & Store Houses for the two Companies of Artillery Stationed
at the Barancas—The Quarters are of but little value, and would cost
more to remove the Materials to this place than they are worth—The
Battalion at this Camp Continue in excellent health—no new cases
having Occurred, and those that were Sick recovering rapidly.”
* Not present.
* Ayers P. Merrill.
* A letter from Col. Clinch, Oct. 12, reported the deaths of Maj. James E.
Dinkins, Fourth Infantry, and Lt. William Warren Gaillard, Sixth Infantry,
both of whom were believed to have contracted the fever at the Barrancas
(NA, WD, AGO Lets. Recd.).



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 539
I have the honor to be Sir, with high respect your most Ob"
D. L. CLINCH Col 4* Rgº Comdg
MAJR C. J. Nourse Act Adjº Gen".
[Endorsed] Camp Hope 5 Oct 1822 Col. D L. Clinch 4 Rg Inf. En-
closes the report of Dº M*Mahon assist. Surgeon which induces him
not to defer cantoning his Rgt.—His Battalion is in good health. The
Doctor reports very little hope of Dº Merrill Oct 29 1822
“A RESIDENT INHABITANT OF EAST FLORIDA” TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:AL)
Private St AUGUSTINE 14th Octr 1822
Believing that the Government of the United States are very illy
informed of the real situation of public affairs in this Territory, the
writer of this letter takes the liberty to mention a few facts from which
the Government will draw such inferences as seem naturally to result
from them.
1. It is an undeniable fact that Governor Duval has become ex-
tremely unpopular throughout all Florida. The Spanish inhabitants,
to a man, are dissatisfied with his conduct—his name is now never
mentioned here without censure. His conduct in regard to the
election of Bronaugh was shameful in the highest degree—his conduct
was equally so in regard to the election of the Mayor of Pensacola,
endeavouring, by the influence of his office, to force upon the inhab-
itants as mayor, a Stranger from New Orleans of no sort of consider-
ation—his scheme was defeated by the united opposition of all the
Spanish inhabitants and almost every upright American in the place.
2. Two of the members of the Legislative Council, Mº Law and
Major Murray, have just arrived here from Pensacola, which place
they left about the 21* of Septr. The Governor was in a few days to
set out for Kentucky, without meeting the Indians at St. Marks, as
he had publickly announced was his intention. He is not to come
again into Florida until May, and has declared his intention not to
move his family into Florida at all. Thus, he will receive $4000 a
year, his salary as Governor and Indian Agent together, reside in
Kentucky and only come into Florida a couple of months in a year to
attend the Legislative Council. It is the general opinion here, and
very freely expressed by all classes, that by obtaining the office of
Governor he only meant to make a Job of it. Very great dissatisfac-
tion is universally felt and loudly expressed on this occasion.
They people here expect the Governor to reside with his family in
the Territory—to consider it his home. This Country never can
flourish under the system which has hitherto been pursued in regard
to it—



540 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
3. Judge Smith arrived here about a fortnight ago, but he can do
nothing as a Judge never having been sworn into office—and that
stupid act of congress made for the government of Florida, requires
that he should take his oath of office only before the Governor—
He is not disposed to run after the Governor into Kentucky, con-
sequently there can be no Court here until next spring—unless Con-
gress will graciously please to rectify their blunders, and authorise
the Judge to take his oath before any Magistrate competent to admin-
ister one. If this be done immediately on the meeting of congress—
the Territorial Court may yet be opened in January next.
4. There is no Marshal yet here to serve the process of the Court.
5. The Sheriff of this County is unable to give the bonds required
by the act of the Legislative Council, consequently cannot enter upon
the duties of his office—and it will take at least 70 or 80 days, even
if the Sheriff were to resign, which he will not do although he cannot
act, before another could be appointed by Mº Walton the Secretary,
acting for Governor Duval. The Coroner appointed has not yet
been able to give the bonds required—So that we are absolutely with-
out the means of administering Justice either Civil or Criminal in
this Section of the Territory.
4. There is no Jail here nor any public or private building suitable
for one, except the Fort, which indeed is fit for nothing else, and would
make a very good Jail. But the Military keep possession of it, al-
though they have not the least use for it—all the officers and soldiers
are quartered at the Barracks, which have been repaired at great
expense to the U. S.
Half a dozen soldiers are marched up to the fort every morning and
relieved the next morning—and this is all that the Military do with
the fort. Surely it would be more useful as a prison for debtors and
criminals—
There are many other matters intimately connected with the wel-
fare and prosperity of this Country, to which the attention of the
Government ought to be directed. The fundamental error in the
Act of Congress for the government of the Floridas, was the uniting
of them under one Government. If congress were unwilling to go
to the expense of two territorial governments, they ought to have
annexed West Florida to Alabama. Nature and every consideration
of interest and public good demand it. The two Floridas never can
flourish under one government. There is no unity of feeling or inter-
est between them. They are too distant from each other—that is,
the two Capitals—and neither will be settled half so fast if kept under
the present system of Gov" that each would, if Pensacola was attached
to Alabama.
Public roads and bridges are indispensably necessary for the
settlement of East Florida—and as Congress have forbidden the



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 541
Local Legislature to tax the public lands, these roads and bridges
never can be made from the revenue arising from taxes on private
property. East Florida is capable of sustaining a very dense popu-
lation—but alas! What encouragement is there for settlers to come
among us—a Country without law or Justice—where scarcely an acre
of land is not liable to litigation, and no Courts to determine the titles.
The land commissioners, it is said, have done nothing at Pensacola
and although they were to come here next January, either cannot or
will not come till next May.
Having chosen this Country as my future abode, through life, I
hope the deep interest I feel in its welfare and prosperity will excuse
the freedom of these remarks—
A resident Inhabitant of East Florida
TO THE HON. JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] D Anonymous “A Resident & Inhabitant of East Florida”
St Augustine 15 October 1822. Recd 5 Nov. Charges against
Governor Duval &c. &c
JAMES G. FORBES TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 15th Oct 1822
SIR I am directed by Judge Law and Capt" Bell who acted with
me last year in taking possession of the Archives when with the
Spanish Authorities, to present our joint account as Commissioners
for that service performed at a most Critical period of the Epidemic
when one of the Secretaries died in the execution of it—There is a
joint power given to John Law Esq to effect a settlement of it with
the Department—
Be pleased to hand the enclosed Power to him for that purpose
I am very respectfully Sir Your most Obed" Serv
J. G* FORBES
FONTAINE MAURY Esq
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esquire. Agent for Florida affairs
(Department of State) Washington
[Endorsed] Forbes James Grant St. Augustine 15 Oct 1822 Re"
11 Nov—with his M. Law & Cap" Bells account*
* See post, p. 596.



542 T E R R I TOR I.A. L. PA P E R S
ANONYMOUS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:AL]
[October 15, 1822)
The attention of M*Adams is respectfully called to the article in
the enclosed News paper, headed the “Election” and signed “Florida”
The facts stated in that communication are undeniably true.
There are now in this place, a number of Indians—some chiefs—
who express great dissatisfaction at the Governor's not meeting them,
as he promised to do, at St. Marks—Some serious consequences are
feared from this neglect of the Indians in this Territory.
15 Octr 1822
[Addressed] The Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington [Postmarked] St. Augustine, 15 Oct 1822 Free
[Endorsed] D Anonymous. with a News-paper, the East Florida
Herald, containing Charges agº Governor Duval. Recd 5th Nov.
1822.
[Enclosure]
An Article from the East Florida Herald
[October 1822)
THE ELECTION.
The polls being now finally closed, we must wait for the return from
West Florida, to ascertain the result of the election. Meanwhile, it
may not be improper to take a brief view of some extraordinary cir-
cumstances, which have attended this election; and to call the atten-
tion of the public to certain facts closely connected with it.
It is not the least of the blessings of a free Government, that the
press is open to all fair and candid animadversion on the conduct of
public officers, however eminent their station or their talents.
Not only the conduct of public officers, but the acts of private
individuals, in matters of public concern, are just and legitimate
subjects of investigation and comment. This is the great advantage
of a free press, to the rights and interests of the community.
Errors and abuses, which otherwise would be repeated are, by this
means, corrected and repressed; and the wrong-doers made to know,
that if they do not alter the course of their conduct, punishment and
the indignation of an injured people await them.
Impressed with these principles we shall proceed to notice:
1. The conduct of his excellency the Governor, in regard to the
election.
2. The conduct of certain individuals recently appointed to office
by his Excellency.
First, then, with regard to the Governor.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 543
It is an undeniable fact, that previously to the appointment of the
Governor, at Washington, Dr. Bronaugh then being there, openly
declared his intention to become a candidate for delegate to congress
from this Territory; and avowed that he should avail himself of the
votes of the common soldiers to effect his object.
It is another fact, not less susceptible of positive proof, that
Governor Duval, previously and subsequently to his appointment,
did pledge himself to support the election of Dr. Bronaugh. What
were the motives or inducements to make this pledge, whether a high
opinion entertained of the virtues and abilities, or the peculiar fitness
of that gentleman for the office, or a belief that he was popular in
Florida—or something else, we shall not, at present, inquire: we only
state the fact.
On the return of Dr. Bronaugh to Pensacola, his name with high
commendations, was announced, as a candidate in the news pa-
per printed there. Col. Barnett was subsequently mentioned, as
another candidate; but it was notorious that the Governor gave his
sole and decided support to the former.
The Legislative Council, owing to delay in the arrival of many of
the members, did not assemble until the 22d day of July. Congress
are to meet on the first Monday of December, consequently no time
ought to have been lost in passing an act by the council to provide
for, and fix the period of the election of the delegate. It is well known
that it takes the mail at least thirty days, to pass between Pensacola
and St. Augustine. The election, therefore could not, with propriety
have been delayed longer than the first day of October, to admit of
the returns in time for the delegate to arrive at Washington, on the
meeting of Congress.
One would, therefore, naturally have supposed that this subject
would have been the first to which the Governor, in his speech, would
have called the attention of the Council. Instead of which we find
him perfectly silent on this matter.
The Legislative Council entered upon other business—passed many
other laws, which might just as well have been delayed until after
the passing of the election law;-and finally did not pass that law,
until the 12th. day of August: too late to allow the inhabitants of
East Florida, to have notice of it and make the necessary arrangements
for the election.
It may perhaps, be said, that this was the fault of the Council, and
not of the Governor. We answer: that it was the fault of both. the
Governor is surely to blame for not recommending in his speech, the
early attention of the Council to this subject.
We shall now notice some extraordinary features in this act, for
which we hold the Governor not less censurable than the majority of
the council; for he was bound, by the duties of his office, to refuse his



544 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
assent to the law if defective or improper in any part of it.—The
first objection to the act is, that the 10th section is so worded that the
common soldiers in the Territory are intended to be allowed to Wote:
that was the avowed object of the majority. The next, and assuredly
a very strong objection is, that the votes are to be given viva voce. We
shall not dwell upon the gross impropriety of these provisions in the
act, as the subject has already received the pointed and severe repro-
bation of the public. But it is evident to every dispassionate mind
that the tendency of these provisions was to secure the election of
Bronaugh, with the aid of the soldiers. The giving of the votes viva
voce would necessarily take away all freedom in many of the electors.
Hence, the officers of the army devoted to Dr. Bronaugh, might, by
that means, compel the troops to vote for him; and certain persons
appointed to civil offices by the Governor, might also control the
votes of many of the citizens.
But this is not the worst that was done, apparently with a view to
promote the election of the Governor's favourite candidate. We find
it devolving on his Excellency himself to make the selection of places
where the election was to be held. He named in his proclamation six
places in West Florida, and only three in East Florida, although the
latter is at least four times greater in extent than the former. By this
arrangement a great proportion of the voters, in East Florida, would
be obliged to travel from thirty to fifty miles, and a considerable
number, upwards of a hundred, to come to any poll.—This consequence
has ensued; that not one fourth part of the population of this section
of the Territory have been able to vote at all.
Again, at the Cowford, where it was natural to suppose that a great
many votes would be taken if the people had attended, instead of ap-
pointing the judges of the election, at that poll, from the neighbor-
hood, where many respectable planters resided, only one Judge was
appointed in that quarter, another 25 miles off, and a third at the
distance of 50 miles.
The consequence of which was, that one of the Judges, being sick,
could not attend and the other came some hours after the poll was
opened; and, to the astonishment of every body refused to act.—but
of this more hereafter.
On this occasion we cannot forbear to contrast the conduct of Mr.
Dawson with that of Judge Reynolds. The former was obliged to
act alone, as a Judge of the election, and conducted himself with strict
impartiality and the greatest propriety thro'out.
In vain may the defenders of the Governor attempt to excuse this
part of his conduct, by pretending that he was ignorant of the situation
and extent of the country, and the names of suitable persons to be ap-
pointed Judges. A list of six places in East Florida, with the names
of five or six persons, at each place, qualified in every respect, for the



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 545
office of Judges was sent to him by respectable men in this City, long
before the election law was passed.
Besides, he had Capt. Hanham with him, who well knew the whole
country and the inhabitants, and who could have given him all the
necessary information on this subject.—We impute no impure motives
to his Excellency in making this extraordinary distinction between
East and West Florida; but with the before mentioned facts in view,
it seems impossible, for any candid and reflecting person, not to draw
inferences unfavourable to his impartial conduct, in regard to the
election. We would fain believe, and we indulge the hope of seeing it
manifested by his future conduct, that he is the Governor of Florida,
and not the supporter of any particular party or faction.
We shall now make a few remarks on the conduct of some of the
public officers, recently appointed by his Excellency.
The first gentleman whom we find figuring in this election, is the
Sheriff of St. Johns County. He leaves his seat in the Legislative
Council comes express here, travelling thro' the country between the
St. Marys and the St. Johns, distributing Dr. Bronaugh's circular ad-
dresses in every direction, and using his utmost influence and endeavors
to induce the people to vote for that candidate, giving them to under-
stand that he was the Governor's candidate; and that it would be
highly displeasing to his Excellency if they should not support Dr.
Bronaugh. He did more—he attended the poll, at the Cowford, and
there zealously and actively electioneered for Bronaugh, until the
news of his death reached that place, when he immediately returned
home.
The sheriff of the new County called Duval, a Mr. Dill or Dell, as
he writes his name, took a similar active part in the election, in favour
of Bronough. He brought up with him to the Cowford a number of
his neighbours, who had never before heard of the name of Dr. Bro-
naugh; and if the reports of respectable persons, who were present,
may be believed this Mr. Dell and his associate all behaved in the
most riotous and disorderly manner.
So determined was Mr. Dell, in the support of Bronough, that after
the news of his death reached the poll, and no one doubted of it, he
swore his friends should vote for him, dead or alive, and some of them
actually did, the next day, give in their votes for him although they
admitted he was dead.
We do not pretend to question the right of a Governor or a sheriff to
vote for whom he may please, and to express an opinion in favour of
any one candidate, in prefernee to another, but we do say, that we
think it highly improper in a Governor or a Sheriff to take a warm and
active part in any election. The Sheriff's business at a poll, when he
attends one, is to keep the peace and promote good order—not to be
instrumental in disturbing the peace, much less to put himself at the
301867–57—36



546 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
head of a riotous gang, and encourage and protect them in their dis-
orderly conduct.
The next person whose conduct at the election we feel obliged to
notice, though it gives us much pain to do so, because we had previ-
ously entertained a high opinion of his character and respectabilty is
Mr. Reynolds, late one of the Judges of the County Court, and re-
cently appointed a Justice of the Peace by his Excellency the Governor.
This gentleman was appointed one of the Judges of the election at
the Cowford; but instead of being there at the opening of the poll, he
did not arrive till the afternoon of the first day, and then refused to
act, giving as a reason, that one of the Judges had opened the poll
without waiting for him. By this conduct, Mr. Reynolds has un-
doubtedly incurred the penalty of 200 dollars, imposed by the law;
and any one may prosecute him for the same and receive one half.
He however, remained at the poll, and in conjunction with Mr. Dell,
as we are informed, electioneered for Bronough, until the news came
of his death. He then discouraged the people from voting at all,
pretending that the election would be void, because only one Judge
held the poll—so that a great number who came there actually went
away without giving in their votes.
Now, we would make the same observations in regard to the con-
duct of Judge Reynolds, which have been made in respect to that of
the Sheriffs. No one denies his right to express his opinion in favour
of this or that candidate; but we do consider it highly indecorous, in
his situation, as one of the Judges of the election, to have been active
and busy in the support of any particular candidate. We however
repeat, that we impute no corrupt motives to any of the above named
gentlemen, but attribute their acts to a highly improper and blameable
zeal, to effect their object—the election of their favuorite candidate.
We shall now close these remarks, with this observation; that we
sincerely declare that we feel not the least animosity or personal ill-
will towards any of the persons whose conduct we have deemed it fit
to notice.
For his Excellency the Goveror, we entertain a very high respect
and regard; but we consider it a duty incumbent upon every honest
and upright member of the community, who feels an interest in the
honour and welfare of this Country, to enter his solemn protest against
the measures and conduct which have been pursued by the persons
before mentioned, in the hope and expectation that similar abuses
will not be again practised. FLORIDA.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 547
ABRAHAM EUSTIS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., E 48:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE, 17* Oct 1822.
SIR. The great uncertainty & delay of the intercourse between
this place & Pensacola, as well as the unofficial information, which I
have received, that Gov" Duval has left the territory of Florida,
induce me to submit directly to you copies of my correspondence with
the Governor on the subject of Indian affairs.
I take this liberty, supposing it possible that the present state of
affairs may be deemed such as to require the immediate interference
of the Government.
I am with high respect. your humble serv"
ABR" EUSTIS
THE HON J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War.
[Addressed] Hon. Secretary of War—For the Indian Department
[Endorsed] Eustis Abra: Col. Sº Augustine Oct 17–1822 Relative
to the uncertainty of intercourse between Sº Augustine & Pensacola.
Has been informed unofficially that the Governor has left Florida &
therefore Submits to the Depmt his correspondence with the Governor
on Indian Affairs
[Enclosures]
Governor DuVal to Abraham Eustis
PENSACOLA August 24* 1822
DEAR SIR By the last mail I received a letter from Cap' Pelham,”
informing me of bad state of his health, and that you had engaged to
act for him in discharging such duties as he, as Sub Agent for Indian
Affairs, ought to perform. I desire therefore that you will take of
Samuel S. Dexter's “bond & security according to law, on presenting
him with the license (inclosed) to Trade with the Indians in Florida,
I have only signed my name in blank, leaving you to fill up the
license, when you shall see M* Dexter; I also send you by Capt
Hanham the several acts of Congress regulating the trade & inter-
course with the Indian Tribes. I also desire that you will give
notice to all the Indians in East Florida that a treaty will be held at
Fort Marks on the 20° day of next November,” when the Chiefs
are all required to attend.
** Not found.
* Horatio S. Dexter.
* See post, p. 597.



548 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
The Government intend to concentrate them at one place.—
I am, with high respect & esteem Yours &c
(Signed) Win P. DUVAL.
COL” AB" EUSTIs Acting as Indian Agent.
|Endorsed] Copy—Gov" Duval to Col. Eustis—24* Aug" 1822–
Abraham Eustis to Governor DuVal
ST AUGUSTINE–15* Sept. 1822–
GOVERNOR-I had the honor to address a hasty letter to you by
the last week's mail,” enclosing a copy of the replies made by the
Secº of War to certain questions,” which I had propounded in relation
to the affairs of the Indians.”—Upon a full consideration of the Secre-
tary's letter, & of the Laws regulating trade & intercourse with the
Indians, I cannot find that it is required of me to adopt any positive
measures, or to make any direct interference with the few white
settlers within, & near the Indian Boundary. I have determined
therefore to remain quiet, unless some overt act of misconduct on
the part of the whites should render my interposition absolutely
necessary. A considerable trade in Cattle & Horses has, as I am
informed, been carried on by two or three individuals during the
last two months. But when regularly notified of its illegality, they,
without much murmuring ceased to pursue it, & your proclamation
which I have caused to be published in the East Florida Herald will
without doubt entirely terminate this unlicensed trade.
Capt. Hanham arrived here yesterday, & from his hand I had the
honor to receive your communication of the 24* Aug" * enclosing a
blank license for Samuel (meaning Horatio) S Dexter. I have
informed that gentleman of its being in my possession to be filled up,
& delivered to him, whenever he will give the required bond. But as
he is still a Spanish subject, I have, under the instructions of the Secº
of War, required him to take the oath of allegiance to the U. S. M*
Dexter's object appears rather to have been to obtain a special license
to purchase a given number of horses, cattle & negroes, than a general
license for Indian Trade.”—I shall immediately take measures to
notify the Indians of East Florida that their attendance is required
at St Marks on the 20° Novº next, as directed by your letter. For this
purpose I intend to send for the Pond Chief (Micanope) & two or
three others, who I am told are at the head of affairs. Some little
expense must necessarily be incurred, for which I request you will
provide the necessary means of disbursement. I understand that
$8 Present; dated Sept. 10, 1822.
89 Ante, p. 512.
90 Ante, p. 495.
91 Supra.
* See post, p. 681.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 549
Capt. Bell has funds of the Indian Department in his possession,
which he is directed to pay over to your order.—
I have the honor to be &c &c -
ABR'm EUSTIS
GOVERNOR DUVAL
[Endorsed] Copy—Col. Eustis to Gov" Duval 15* Sept. 1822
Abraham Eustis to Governor DuVal
St AUGUSTINE October 16. 1822
GOVERNOR According to the intention, which I had the honor to
communicate in my letter of the 15” Ult” ”I dispatched a messenger
on the 22" Ult” to Miconope the Pond Governor to inform him that
I had a communication to make to him, & to request him & two or
three of the head men of the Seminole Indians to come & see me at
this place. My object in desiring to see them was that I might
personally communicate to the Chiefs your directions respecting the
Treaty to be held at St Marks on the 20th Novº “ & also the views of
the Government respecting their lands, boundaries & intercourse with
the whites, as explained in the letter addressed to me by the Depart-
ment of War,” a copy of which I submitted to you on the 10” Ult”
The Indians have not yet come in, & the time for the meeting at S*
Marks is so rapidly approaching that I have some doubts, whether
they will come at all. The enclosed copies of communications from
Mr Dexter” will explain the causes of their delay. I expect to see
him tomorrow & hope to obtain more satisfactory information from
him. Whatever the state of affairs among the Indians may prove to
be, it is hardly possible for me to interpose with any effect, as I am
wholly destitute of funds, & my entire force here consists of forty
nine enlisted men.
17. Oct' I have just seen and and conversed with Mr Dexter, who
left Volusia on the 15* ins' He brings no further information than was
communicated in his letter, except that about forty Indian women
had arrived & encamped in the neighbourhood of his plantation,
bringing with them their poultry & moveables, They informed him
that Micanope was assembling his warriors & negroes & was deter-
mined to fight in defence of his home & his property. His force may
be estimated at one hundred fighting men.
The hostile party is supposed to be about one hundred & thirty.
As their object appears merely to be plunder, I do not believe there
will be much blood shed ”—
* Supra.
* See post, p. 554.
** Ante, p. 512.
* Present.
* See post, p. 562.



550 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
I am with high respect Your humble Serv"
ABR" EUSTIS
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR OF FLORIDA
[Endorsed] Copy—Col. Eustis to Govt of Florida 16th & 17th Octº
1822
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO DUNCAN L. CLINCH 98
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., C 210:C)
No 7– SYNNESSA October 18 1822
Col CLINCH, Commº
SIR, The Secretary of State, by letter dated the 20 of Aug 1822,”
addressed to Governor Duval, informed him that “with regard to the
Occupation by the Military of the public buildings, orders have been
already transmitted from the War Department to Co'Clinch, to place
them at the disposal of the Civil Authority”
The Government of the Territory, by the act of Congress of the 30
of March last, devolving on me, in Consequence of the absence of the
Governor, it becomes my duty to address you on the subject of those
buildings, and request that the determination of the Government be
Carried into Effect. The Subject has recently in an especial manner
demanded by attention, by a formal request from the mayor and City
Council of Pensacola, to set apart for the use of the Corporation one
of the Block Houses lately Occupied by the Troops. I have informed
the Mayor that the public buildings not having been formally turned
over to me, although no longer Occupied by the Military, I did not
think it proper to take any step untill I had previously addressed you
on the subject.—I should wish to make the arrangement entirely
Convenient to the Military, but understanding that it is not their
intention to return to Pensacola, I presume there can be no objection
to giving possession to the Civil Authority, of all such buildings, as
are not actually used and Occupied for Military purposes—
I have the honor to be with high Consideration Yº Ob: Ser
(Signed) GEO: WALTON
Secy & Act: Gov of the Terry of Florida
COL D L. CLINCH Commandng
a true copy W* Martin Adjt. 4° Inf.
98 Enclosed with a letter of Sept. 8, 1824, from Clinch to the Secretary of War.
** Ante, p. 510.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 551
DUNCAN L. CLINCH TO ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON 1
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., C 210:C)
No 8— CAMP HOPE W F 19 October 1822
SIR, I have just had the honor to receive your Communication of
the 18 ins", and herewith Enclose you a Copy of a letter from the
Secretary of War dated 17 July 1822,” by which you will perceive that
it was not his intention that any but the property strictly belonging
to the Civil Dept of the Government should be turned over to the
Executive of this Territory—I have however no objection in the spirit
of Military accomodation to directing the Quarter Master to turn
over to you, or to the Corporation of the City of Pensacola, such of
the public buildings as may not be wanting for military purposes,
subject however to the decision of the Department of War—The
public buildings heretofore designated as the Government House,
and the buildings annexed thereto, will be turned over to you whenever
required, as they are now entirely unoccupied—One of the public
Block Houses has been promised to the Collector of the port of
Pensacola to be used as the Custom House, subject however to the
decision of the Dep" of war *—
I have the honor to be, Sir with high regard, Your mo: ob: Ser
(Signed) D L CLINCH Col 4 Inf Commanding
HIS EXCELLENCY G. WALTON ACT: Gov
a true copy W* Martin Adjt. 4 Inf.
SAMUEL MYERS TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA Oct. 20. 1822–
DEAR SIR I had designed you a long & troublesome epistle by this
mail but I have been constantly interrupted untill the time has slipped
through my fingers & it is about to close, so I must need be brief &
come at once to the substance of my story if any it would have had—
Mr Scott collector of the customs in this District has sent on his
resignation leaving me in charge of the office as his Deputy & recom-
mending me as his Successor: now I would fain engage the favor of
your friendship to say a word in my behalf to Mr Calhoun to whom I
have also forwarded a line of introduction & to any other of the mem-
bers of the Cabinet you please—The office is not incompatible with
my profession which I have no intention to relinquish nor is it now of
any value but it may in process of time become so & I doubt not that
Congress will ad interim attach a small salary to it—
! Enclosed with a letter of Sept. 8, 1824, from Clinch to the Secretary of War.
* Ante, p. 488.
*See post, p. 556.



552 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I will not fatigue you with apologies for this liberty or this trouble—
Have the goodness to present me to my friend Col Archer * & believe
me with very great respect
Dear Sir Your mo Obt St
SAML MYERS
BRIG. GENL. JESSUP &c. &c. &c
[Addressed] Brig. Gen. Thomas S. Jessup Quarter Master General
Washington City [Postmarked] Pensacola 21. 0.22. Free
[Endorsed] Mr Sam" Myers. Pensacola. 20 Oct 1822
NATHANIEL A. WARE AND SAMUEL R. OVERTON
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
La Rua's 8 miles from PENSACOLA, October 21* 1822.
SIR; In consequence of the prevailance of the yellow fever at
Pensacola, our duties, as Commissioners, have been suspended for
more than two months. Such has been the fury and fatality with
which it raged, that very few Americans who were attacked, have
survived. Out of a population of about 1,500 or 2,000, between 2 or
300 have fallen victims. There was no safety but in flight, and we
were so fortunate as to retire at a period sufficiently early, to avoid its
ravages. We sincerely regret the necessity which imperatively urged
the adoption of this measure, and the consequent postponement in the
prosecution of our duties, but it was altogether unavoidable. Had we
remained in Pensacola, we should, probably have shared the fate of
those who failed to remove, without any prospect of accomplishing
any valuable purpose. The population was flying in every direction
where they could obtain accommodation, and those who remained in
the city, were, in numerous instances, either assailed themselves, or
engaged in discharging towards those who were, the ordinary offices
of duty and humanity. Such was the general alarm and distress, that
business of almost every description was suspended. Under such cir-
cumstances, it would have been impossible to make any progress in
the adjudication of land claims. The disease has nearly altogether
subsided; but we are apprehensive, it proceeds more from the want of
subjects, than from any other cause. About a week since, the last cases
which proved fatal, have been represented to be as virulent as any that
have occurred. The weather yet continues warm at Pensacola, and
we are advised, that it will not be safe to return until frost, which
may be expected about the middle of next month. The population
may be then expected to return to the city, and we may calculate upon
being enabled to proceed in the accomplishment of our commission.
* Samuel B. Archer, Inspector General, 1821–1825.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 553
Since our retirement to the country, all that we have been enabled to
perform, has received our attention. The papers submitted, have been
mostly recorded.—
We have considered it our duty to communicate these facts, in order
that Congress may adopt such measures as may be necessary to meet
them. Owing to the lamentable calamity which has visited the city
of Pensacola, our duties will have been interrupted for so great a
length of time, that it will be impossible for us to close the business in
West Florida, within the time prescribed in the law organizing this
Board of Commissioners. It will be absolutely necessary that the
sessions should be extended. We would, therefore respectfully suggest,
that the subject be submitted to Congress as soon as they shall be
convened, so that provision be made to this end as early as possible.
It will probably be practicable to pass a supplemental act for this
purpose, sufficiently early to reach us before the termination of our
session at Pensacola, which is very disirable"—
We are, with every sentiment of respect, Yº Mo. Obt. Sevts.
NATH. A. WARE
SAM! R. OVERTON.
JOHN Q. ADAMS, Sec'y of State, U. S.
[Addressed] Honb" John Q. Adams, Secretary of State, Washington
City. [Postmarked] Pensacola 28 O. 22 Free
[Endorsed] Ware Nath' A. Overton Sam: R. near Pensacola 21
October 1822 Recd 20 Nov.
* This letter was laid before the House of Representatives by the Speaker on
Jan. 15, 1823 (House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 132), and on the same date
Del. Hernandez, of Florida Territory, introduced a resolution to instruct the
Committee on Public Lands to inquire into the expediency of amending the act
for ascertaining claims and titles to lands in the territory, approved May 8, 1822
(3 STAT. 709–718). The end result was the passage of an act approved Mar. 3,
1823 (3 STAT. 754–756), designed to remedy the defects in the former act. Among
the various new provisions was one setting up a second board of commissioners to
be located in E. Fla., the existing board now being allocated solely to W. Fla.
Two land offices were authorized to be located in E. and W. Fla., respectively.
These land offices were to be implemented by the President as soon as land claims
had been determined (the commissioners having sole power to assess the validity
of claims under 3,500 acres). The appointment of registers and receivers for the
land offices, and the appointment of a surveyor of public lands, likewise authorized
by the new law, must therefore await the time when claims had been either
validated or rejected. This meant an indefinite postponement of the sale of
public lands. See post, p. 563.



554 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ACTING GOVERNOR
WALTON
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR Oct 23d 1822
CoLONEL GEORGE WALTON Secretary of the Territory of Florida.
SIR, I have received a letter from Governor Duval" in which he
suggests the propriety on account of the sickliness of the season, of
postponing for the present the treaty which it was contemplated to
hold with the Florida Indians next. The suggestion of the Governor
is approved, and Col: Eustis at S* Augustine has been directed 7 in
the absence of the Indian Agent to inform the Indians that the treaty
will be postponed to a more favorable season. You will accordingly
not take any steps for holding a treaty with the Indians at the above
mentioned period.”
The Indian Agent, it is expected will shortly arrive in Florida.
Should he arrive during the absence of the Governor, you will inform
him of the postponement of the treaty, and give him such instructions
as you may deem necessary upon the subject.”
I have &c. J. C. C.
JUDGE SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE 31. Oct. 1822.
SIR, In my letter of the first instant " I had the honour to report
my arrival, at this place, on the 29" of September. Sensible of the
feelings which are excited in a Territorial population by the absence
of their Civil Officers, I considered it due to the people of East Florida,
to repair to my station at this time, & to evince at once, my intention
of becoming a permanent resident among them—though aware
previously to my departure from Connecticut in August, that it
would not be in my power to hold a Court in October, or to do any
official act, because Governor Duval, from whom alone, by the Act
of Congress,” I could receive the Oath of Office, was at Pensacola,
distant from Augustine by water, in the usual track, about two
thousand miles & by land, in the only practised route, through
• Ante, p. 533.
7 Oct. 23, 1822, (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E). On the same date a letter
was written to DuVal, acknowledging his letter of Sept. 22 and expressing approval
of the postponement of the meeting with the Indians (loc. cit.).
8 Walton had arrived at the same conclusion before the receipt of this letter.
See post, p. 556.
• Answered post, p. 576. Cf. post, p. 560.
10 Not found.
11 Ante, p. 389.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 555
Georgia, seven hundred & fifty. I could not expect therefore, to
open my Court till the term of January, before which time it was
confidently expected that the Governor, in the exercise of his official
duties, would visit Augustine.
After my Arrival, & after becoming acquainted with the State of
the District, I became satisfied with this result; because sure, that a
term of the court at an earlier period, before the promulgation of
the code of the Legislative Council—& while yet not only the forms of
Law process, but the laws themselves were uncertain & unknown in
East Florida—could in no respect, advance the essential interests
of justice or of the Territory—That some suits indeed might be
commenced, fees charged & court expenses incurred, without the
possibility of progressing beneficially one step towards final judg-
ment—& that in the interval, the laws might be received, forms of
practice & rules of Court determined on, and digested views enter-
tained, which would enable the Court to proceed with system, dispatch
& usefulness at the January Term.
But it has now become my duty Sir, to inform you, that the absence
of Governor Duval from the Territory,” and the expectation enter-
tained that he will not return to it again till about the first of May,
will render it impracticable for me to be sworn into office, either in
season for the January or April term of the Court. I take the liberty
therefore, to suggest to your consideration, in behalf of the interests
of the Territory, the propriety & necessity of legislative provision,
at the earliest practicable day of the next session of Congress, em-
powering some person at this place, or any person, competent to
administer oaths generally—to administer the Oath of Office to me.
Such provision Sir, would obviate the difficulty, which may repeatedly
occur, from the restriction of this power, as the law at present stands,
personally to the Governor.”
I consider it proper Sir, that the whole Subject may be before you
at one view, & that there may be no supposition of neglect on my part,
to repeat that my appointment of Judge was not made, till after
Govenor Duval left Washington—That immediately upon my ac-
ceptance, I addressed him in duplicate at Pensacola,” requesting to
know the earliest time at which I might expect to find him in East
Florida, where in conversation, previous to my appointment, he had
informed me he should be in the course of the then ensuing summer,
& where in my letter, I assured him, I would not fail to be at the
earliest day which he should name. The Governor in reply, which
reached me in August, gave me the information that his intentions
were changed, & that he should probably not visit Augustine till
* Ante, p. 534.
* See post, p. 563.
1* Not seen.



556 T E R R H TO RIA L P A P E R S
subsequent to an Indian treaty, which would occupy some time after
the session of the Legislative Council.
After this information, if it could have been considered my duty
to have travelled in pursuit of the Governor at the expense of a years
salary several thousand miles, I still could not have found him in the
Territory, as he would have left Pensacola before I could have reached
it.
I have to offer in apology Sir, for the repetition of former letters
contained in this, the doubt arising from distance & the uncertainty of
the Mails whether those have yet been received—& the certainty of
this reaching you safely by Col. Hamilton the Attorney of the U. S.
for East Florida, who will be able to give explanations in relation
to the subject matter of this letter, on points wherein I May have
been deficient.”
I have the honour to be Sir With great respect Yr Most Obed"
Servi
JOS. L. SMITH.
HON JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State Department of State
Washington.
[Addressed] To The Hon. John Q. Adams Secretary of State Wash-
ington By Col Hamilton
[Endorsed] Smith Jos. L St. Augustine 31 Oct 1822 Rec" 8* Dec'
complains of the absence of Gov. Duval
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 129:ALS)
NEAR PENSACOLA, November 4* 1822—
SIR; In consequence of the letter of the Secretary of State, of
the 20" of August,” in relation to the public buildings, I have re-
quested Col: Clinch to give orders to the Quarter Master, to turn
them over to the Executive of this Territory. I presume the Colonel
has written to you,” and enclosed copies of the communications
which have passed between us upon the subject. The buildings
have not yet been turned over to me; but it is to be expected, that
they will be, in a short time, agreeably to the orders of the War
Department.—
It seems, that some little doubt exists, as to what buildings, if any,
should be considered of a military character. All the public build-
ings, except the prison and Hospital, were included within the old
British Fort. Under the Spanish Government, the plan of that
15 See post, p. 592. - -
16 To DuVal, ante, p. 510.
17 Ante, p. 547.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 557
part of the town has been changed; The block houses now stand on
the street, or on the public square, and excepting their form, they
have nothing of a military character. Some of them it is true, were
occupied, as quarters, by the Spanish soldiery, which was also the
case with the buildings contiguous to the Government House; but
the troops stationed here, were properly appendages to the civil
authority of the Governor, who was the military and political chief
of the Province. Since the troops of the united states have been
removed from Pensacola, no use, I believe, is made of any of these
buildings; but left entirely unoccupied. Two of the block houses,
which stand in the street, ought to be torn down, or removed; but
in the present poverty of the city and county, may be used, for a
time, as public offices. Excepting the jail, which is a miserable
building, all these edifices are of wood, and very old.—
Your letters of the 28th August,” and of the 18" " and 20th 20 of
September, with their several enclosures, addressed to Governor
Duval, were received by me, on the 1* of this month. Upon the
subject of Indian affairs, and particularly the treaty contemplated
with those Tribes which reside in Florida, and to which your last
communications relate, I have felt great solicitude, and exceedingly
regret the absence of the Governor, of which, I presume, e'er this,
you have been advised. I confess, that I do not see, in a manner
satisfactory to my own mind, the relation in which the Secretary of the
Territory stands to the Governor, as ex officio Superintendant of
Indian affairs; neither do I understand clearly, the extent of my
powers on this head, as acting Governor under the law of Congress.
Notwithstanding this doubt, I should consider it my duty to act,
if there were any thing which the public service required to be done,
and which might be in my power to accomplish; but upon this subject,
I am entirely without means or instructions.”
It is unnecessary to state to you the situation of things in this
section of Florida, in consequence of the dreadful pestilence which has
prevailed in Pensacola. The sickness of my family, and of an esteemed
friend (D" Bronaugh) who was confined at my house, detained me a
considerable time, in the city, after the Legislative Council adjourned
to Emanuel's. As soon as it was in my power to leave Pensacola, I
was compelled to provide a shelter for my family in the woods, to
which their safety urged me to retire; and therefore, saw but little of
* Ante, p. 518.
1° NA(OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E), concerning the Indian Agent, Gad
Humphreys, who was instructed on the same day (ante, p. 532) to leave for
Florida not later than Oct. 18, in order to be present at the conference at St.
Marks on Nov. 20.
* Loc. cit., enclosing licenses forwarded to the Department by the late Acting
Governor.
2. Cf. post, p. 626.



558 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Governor Duval, previous to his departure for the state of Kentucky.
Having made no communications to me on the subject of the Indians,
all the information I possess in relation to it, has been gathered from
the documents and papers left in my charge by the Governor, upon
his leaving the territory, and the communications from your Depart-
ment by the last mail, the receipt of which has already been acknowl-
edged.—
From the Talk sent by the Governor, to the Indians of Florida, and
communicated to your Department, it appears, that the 20° of this
month was appointed as the time of meeting at St Marks; and I
understand from a letter, lately received from Richards the Interpreter,
and addressed to Governor Duval, that the Chiefs and all their
warriors will assemble on that day. I was, myself, under the impres-
sion, that it was intended the Chiefs alone should be invited; and such
would also seem to have been the understanding of Col: Eustis, as
expressed in his letter to the Governor, of the 15” of September.”
Upon referring, however, to the letter of Governor Duval to you, of
the 22" of September,” I understand that he has recommended, in the
strongest terms, not to enter into any Treaty with the Indians this
winter. This letter, connected with his departure for the state of
Kentucky, without leaving me any instructions upon the contemplated
negociation, induced me to believe, that the project, would, in all
probability be abandoned, and in any event, that I should not be
authorised to act, untill further advices were forwarded from the
War Department.—
It would appear, from your letter of the 28* of August,” received
with your communications on the 1* Instant,” that it was desirable
the Governor should meet the Indians at the time and place appointed,
and negociate a treaty with them, if it suited his convenience to accept
of this special appointment; and if not, intimating that Capt. Bell
would probably be deputed on that duty. I am now at a loss to know,
whether, in pursuance of the suggestion of Governor Duval, the
Government has determined on holding no treaty, and if otherwise,
whether Capt. Bell, or some other person has received instructions to
proceed to St Marks, and accomplish the objects of the negociation.
Unless a commissioner has been appointed, there will be no person
authorized to meet the Indians in Council, and their assembling, must
consequently, be productive of no valuable purpose. It was too late,
even at the time of the Governor's departure from the Territory, to
send word to the Indians, requesting them not to assemble, and giving
the necessary explanations; and besides, I felt myself restrained from
22 Amte, p. 548.
23 Ante, p. 533.
* Ante, p. 518.
23 Not found.



F L O RI D A T E R R I TO R Y 559
the adoption of this measure, by the letter of Governor Duval, of the
22° of September, in which he says:–“I shall, however, direct the
Indians to be assembled according to your desire; but hope that no
treaty will be held with them, until this subject is further investigated.”
Even were it necessary for me to act on this occasion, and admitting it
to be practicable from the situation of the country, I should be at a
loss in making the preparations for supplying the Indians, or to know
the nature and amount to be furnished at St Marks, as no funds have
been placed at my disposal, and no instructions given me as a guide
upon the subject Your letter of the 18* of September,” states that all
these preliminary arrangements had been entrusted to Col: Hum-
phreys, under the direction of Governor Duval, and that you hoped he
would arrive in due time.” I have to inform you, that he has not
yet reached Pensacola, nor have I heard what progress he has made
on his journey.—
Another consideration which forbid my interference on this occasion,
is, that on your receipt of the Governor's letter, informing your
Department of his visit to Kentucky,” measures may have been
concerted with Col: Humphreys and some other individual as Com-
missioner, on this subject, and perhaps any steps which might be
taken by me would conflict with those adopted by the agents of the
Government. By the next mail, I am in hopes to be advised of the
determination of your Department, touching the suggestions of
Governor Duval in his last communication.—
Should I receive no further advices from the War Department upon
this subject, and an agent should not be appointed to meet the Indians
in Council, there does not appear to be any thing in my power, except
despatching a messenger to St Marks, with letters to the Commandant
of the place, informing him of the state of things which has unfortu-
nately grown out of the circumstances already detailed. Without any
authority to act as a Commissioner in holding a treaty with the
Indians, myself, it would be useless for me to go to St Marks. In the
absence of the Governor, my public duties forbid it. My want of
funds, also renders it impossible for me to make any preparations for
supplying the Indians, who will probably, assemble at St Marks in
great numbers. They will, no doubt, be greatly disappointed, and
it is to be feared, much dissatisfied. How far it may have an effect
in exciting a spirit of hostility, or interfer with any future effort at
negociation, I cannot certainly anticipate. Upon an explanation to
the Chiefs and Warriors, it is to be hoped that any difficulty will be
obviated.”—
* NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
27 See ante, p. 532.
** Ante, p. 533.
** See post, p. 576.



560 T E R R IT OR I. A L PA P E R S
Accept Sir, the assurance of my high Consideration &c.—
GEO. WALTON Secy & Act Gov: of the Terry Florida
THE HON: JOHN C. CALHOUN Secretary at War—
[Endorsed] Walton. G Secº & Act" Govt of Florida near Pensacola
4 Nov 1822 relative to public buildings & Indian Affairs
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR DUWAL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 5 Nov. 1822
WM P. DUVAL Esquire, Governor of Florida, and in his absence
to GEORGE WALTON Esquire Secretary of the said Territory—
Pensacola.
SIR. Your letter of the 22% of September last having been laid
before the President of the United States,” I am directed by him in
conformity to the suggestion therein made, to authorize you, as I
hereby do, to draw upon this Department for a sum not exceeding
five thousand dollars, for the payment of the claims enumerated in
your Letter, the examination of which so far as they be just and
lawful claims upon the Government of the United States, is also
entrusted to you. It is the special instruction of the President, that
in the discharge of this trust, no claim be admitted not authorized by
Law, and he relies that in the adjustment of every claim you will
have the strictest regard to the justice due to the public as well as
to the Claimants. You will regularly transmit to this Department
an account of all the sums paid by virtue of this authority, supported
by authentic vouchers, for the purpose of settlement at the Treasury.
I am with great respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant.
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x:ALS*1]
NEAR PENSACOLA, November 5* 1822–
SIR; The dreadful calamity which visited Pensacola, this season,
of which you have, no doubt, long since been advised, it will be
readily imagined, has thrown great difficulties in the way of public
business of every description. Every one who could leave the city,
fled from the deadly pestilence; and in consequence of the small
number of settlements in the country contiguous, many were obliged
* Ante, p. 534. -
* The second paragraph of this letter was printed in H. Doc. 17, 17. Cong.,
2 sess.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 561
to live in huts and tents through the woods, as the only means of
safety. The sickness of my own family detained me for a considerable
time in Town; and I was one of the last of the Americans to make
my escape. Under such circumstances of distress and derangement,
it has not been in my power to devote that strict attention, which I
could have desired, in discharging those duties in relation to the
Government of the Territory, that have devolved on me, in conse-
quence of the departure of the Governor for the state of Kentucky.
With regard to the publication of the laws, I regret to state, that it
has been delayed very much against my wish; but from the situation
of this section of the country, it was not possible to have the printing
executed at Pensacola, and from the prevalence of Yellow fever at
New Orleans, very little better prospect was presented in that quarter.
The desease having greatly subsided at this place, I am at this time,
under the expectation, that a contract will be entered into with the
printer of Pensacola, so as to have the work completed by the 10*
of January. The duty of contracting for, and superintending the
printing of the laws, was imposed by an act of the Legislative Council,
upon two of its own members, who it is understood, are engaged
in making the necessary arrangements. Should they not be enabled
to make a contract, so as to have the work completed at the time
proposed, I shall take upon myself the responsibility of despatching
a messenger to New Orleans, on this special commission, in order to
be enabled, in time, to present to Congress a printed copy of the acts
of the Legislative Council of this Territory. Owing to the great
variety of subjects, on which it became necessary to legislate, the
volume will consist of 3 or 400 octavo pages, and it is expected that
the expence of printing will be considerable. In the event of failure
to have the laws printed, as was contemplated, I shall proceed,
without delay to have them copied, and confidently calculate upon
being enabled to have them transmited to you by 1” of February.
I am now engaged in examining the copy made out by the directions
of the Governor, and shall be prepared to deliver it to the printer, as
soon as arrangements are made to progress with the work.
In the performance of my labours, it will be indispensibly necessary
that I should have the assistance of a clerk. The additional duties
imposed upon me, by the absence of the Governor, renders it almost
impracticable for me to get on without such aid; but how he is to be
compensated for his services, I am at a loss to determine, as it appears
there is no provision made to meet the case in the act of Congress,
organizing the Government of Florida. As soon as your convenience
will permit, you will confer a favor by advising me upon this subject,
as it is one upon which I feel considerable solicitude.
Amongst the papers and documents left in my charge by Governor
Duval, was a bill, drawn by him on your Department, for the sum of
301867–57–87



562 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
3300 dollars, which, by his letter of advice, is to be appropriated in
defraying the expences incured by the Legislative Council, and those
incident to the publication of the Laws. This draft I have negociated
with the House of F. H. Nisbet & Co “—and am, from time to time,
applying the proceeds to the purposes for which it was intended.—
The public buildings have not yet been turned over to me by Col:
Clinch. A correspondence has taken place between us,” which I pre-
sume has been communicated by the Colonel to the Secretary at War,
to whom I have written fully on the subject.” There was some diffi-
culty in deciding what buildings were to be surrendered to the Execu-
tive of the Territory, and which retained, as being of a description
purely military. I believe however, they will all be delivered over,
agreeably to the request in my last letter to Col: Clinch, subject to
the decision of the Secretary of War. For my own part, I do not
think there ought to be any difficulty on this occasion; the block
houses standing on the public square, are the only buildings which
possess any thing of a military character, and that alone, on account
of their structure and original use.
Several letters have been received from the Secretary at War, in
relation to our intercourse, and a contemplated treaty with the Indians
of Florida. These I have answered, to which I beg leave to refer you.
It will be seen, that some embarrassment and confusion have arisen
upon the subject, which, to me, has been a source of no ordinary
share of anxiety. I was extremely solicitous to do any thing within
the compass of my power; but under the circumstances, I was alto-
gether at a loss to determine what duties had devolved on me by the
absence of the Governor, as superintendant of Indian affairs, or from
the papers in my possession, to ascertain what measures could be
adopted. This, I have more fully and explicitly explained in my
communication to the Secretary at War.
I regret extremely, that Governor Duval should have found it
absolutely necessary to be absent from the Territory at this particular
juncture. During the prevalence of the fever, domestic duties of the
most imperative and irresistable character, precluded me an oppor-
tunity of having scarcely any conversation with him, relative to
Indian affairs; and almost all the information which I possess upon the
subject, is derived from the correspondence between the Governor
and the War Department, entrusted to my charge, upon his departure
for the State of Kentucky; and from communications received from
M" Calhoun by the last mail.”—
32 Of Philadelphia.
* Ante, pp. 550, 551.
* Ante, p. 556. See post, p. 575.
* Cf. ante, p. 554.



FLORIDA. T E R RI TOR Y 563
I have the honor to be with sentiments of the highest respect yr
obt Servant
GEO WALTON
Sec'y & Act Gov: of the Terry of Florida
THE HON: JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Walton Secy (acting as Gov') near Pensacola, 5 Novem-
ber 1822 Reca 4 Decº Affairs of Florida. Publication of the
Territorial Laws, Indians, &c. &c
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 22 Nov. 1822
W* P. DUVAL Esquire Governor of Florida now at Bairds Town—
Kentucky
SIR. Some dissatisfaction having been excited by your absence,
from the Territory of Florida I have been directed by the President
of the United States, to inform you of his wish that you should return
to it, with all convenient dispatch—It is to be observed, that by the
act of Congress of 30 March 1822, “for the establishment of a Terri-
torial Government in Florida” the Oath to support the Constitution
of the United States, an of Office, are to be administered to the Judges,
by the Governor * and that the Judge of the Superior Court of East
Florida, has not yet been qualified.”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
SAMUEL R. OVERTON AND NATHANIEL A. WARE TO
PHILIP P. BARBOUR
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:LS)
La Rua's, 8 miles from PENSACOLA, November 24* 1822.
THE HON” THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES of U.
States:
SIR: The act of Congress, passed at the last session, for organizing
a Board of Commissioners to ascertain claims and titles to land within
the Territories of Florida,” requires, that our session should terminate
at Pensacola, and commence at St. Augustine, by the first of January
next. We have the honor to inform you, and through you, the honor-
able body over which you preside, that it will be altogether imprac-
** Ante, p. 389.
*7 Answered post, p. 599. See post, p. 583.
** Approved May 8, 1822, 3 STAT. 709–718.



564 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ticable to bring our duties to a close in West Florida, within the time
prescribed. In consequence of the fatality with which the yellow
fever prevailed at Pensacola, the prosecution of our commission has
been unavoidably suspended for more than three months. Such was
its malignancy, that scarcely an American escaped who remained
within the reach of contagion. Every description of business was, at
length, almost entirely abandoned, and all who possessed the means,
betook themselves to flight, as the only measure of safety. Under
such circumstances, had we disregarded our own safety, such was the
distress of the inhabitants, that the claimants could not have attended
to the presentment of their titles. There are yet reported to be a few
cases of yellow fever in Pensacola, which combined with the fact, that
the weather continues warm and without frost, renders it doubtful
whether we could return with impunity. As soon as we can obtain
assurances to this effect, which are daily expected, our duties will be
promptly resumed. We feel evry anxiety to progress, and to accom-
plish as soon as possible, the objects of our appointment.—
Under these circumstances, we would respectfully recommend, an
extension of the sessions, both at Pensacola and St. Augustine. It will
certainly require more time to complete the investigation of land
claims in Florida, than at first anticipated. We would suggest an
additional term of six months, for West Florida, with the power of
adjourning should the business be sooner completed; as also such
prolongation in that at St. Augustine, as the Delegate may deem
necessary. He is no doubt, well informed upon the subject, and can
give to Congress evry information which is desirable.—
Feeling the necessity of such a prolongation, and trusting that your
honorable body will not hesitate to pass an act * authorizing the
same, we shall continue to prosecute our duties at this place, until
we hear what disposition Congress has made upon the subject. We
would add, that the difficulty of transportation from this to St.
Augustine, renders it desirable that the business should be completed
here in one session. This was, no doubt, the intention of the law, by
which this board was organized. Again—the Commissioners, to
prevent fraud, have resolved, that claims must be presented in the
Province where the grant was made. Agreeably to this rule, they
cannot follow us to St. Augustine."—
Respectfully,
SAM! R. OVERTON.
NATH A. WARE-
Hon” Speaker of the House of Rep. U. States.
39 See ante, p. 553, n.
40 See post, p. 580.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 565
[Addressed] Hon” Speaker of the House of Representatives, of
United States. Washington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola 2 Dec Free
[Endorsed] Sam' R. Overton & Nathaniel A Ware Janx 2. 1823.
Ref' to the Committee on the Judiciary.” Speaker 24 Jud
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY THE INHABITANTS OF
EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:DS)
[November 25, 1822)
The Memorial of the subscribers for themselves & other Residents
of the Easteren section of the Territory of Florida to The President
& Congress of the United States, respectfully sheweth: That your
Memorialists forming a large Majority of that part of the Inhabi-
tants called Planters or those whose existence is identified with the
cultivation of the Soil, feeling deeply grateful for the prospect of
being releived from Fronteer anarchy & distress by the providential
supervention of the Government of the United States with which
they declare themselves fully satisfied: But feeling greatly allarmed
at the report of subsequent Ordenances & the adoption of Inferior
Courts & County Regulations” &c by the Legislative Council, re-
quiring to be supported by a System of Taxation * disproportioned
to the means & abilities of the Inhabitants from whom they are to
be levied & entirely at variance with oeconomy & common reason;
These Inhabitants therefore humbly pray that Congress after due
enquiry may see fit to suspend their assent to the Ordenances of Our
Territorial Legislative Council as far as they relate to Taxes or
County Courts &c. which under the Just but limited provisions of
the United States expressed in an Act of Congress entitled an Act
for the establishment of a Territorial Government in Florida are
rendered at present unnecessary.
Territory of Florida 25 Nov 1822
Jno: Bellamy Rubin Hogans
James Dell Dan' Hogans
A. Bellamy Charles Hogans
Joseph Hill John R. Hogans
James R. Houston Jnohn Warren
Will: Fitzpatrick David Turner
Dom” Fernandez Jessee Turner
Isaac Hendricks James Turner
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 94.
* Act approved Aug. 12, 1822, Fla., Acts, 1822, pp. 3–6.
* Act approved Sept. 2, 1822, ibid., pp. 67–78; printed also in H. Rept. 52, 17
Cong., 2 sess.



566 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Peter Bagley
William Drummond
John C. Houston
Jn Uptegrove
T. Reynolds
Z. Kingsley
Domingo Acosta
James Pelot
F D M*Donell
Josh Hickman
Franco Pons
James Hall
John Edwards
S. Eubank
Wm Hobkirk
John Houston
Ben: Chaires
Jn° Ashton
Joh Christopher
Geo: J F: Clarke
Wm H. Fitzpatrick
John D. Braddock
William Braddock
John T Lowe
Sam' B. Fitzpatrick
Peter Mitchel
F. Richard
Peter Suarez
Thomas Suarez
Anthony Suarez
W H G Saunders
Rob" Harrison
Sam" Harrison
Ep" Harrison
Sam" Harrison Jun"
Lewis Christopher
[Endorsed] Florida Inhabitants of East ag" Council Ordinances
Jany. 13. 1823 Ref" to Commº" Judiciary * Memorial E. Florida
Memorial from the Inhabitans residing on the Sº Johns River pray-
ing for the repeal of certain Laws &. Hernandez. 60. Jud” These 51
signatures represent 3/10 of all the productive property north of S'
Augustine
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO RICHARD M. JOHNSON 48
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
BARDS Town (Ky.) Novºr 26* 1822
DEAR SIR The Hon.” Judge Gaither has requested me to forward
to you two accounts, which are inclosed, for services rendered by him
in East Florida” I also inclose to you an account of Brother in Law
Alfred W. Hynes for his services as Secretary to the acting Governor
of East Florida “ his letter of appointment is also inclosed “–M'
Hynes acted as Secretary from the time Mr W* Reynolds (who was
his predecessor) quit, which was up to the day—Mr. Rynolds—drew
his allowance,” this day can be easily seen by refference to his account
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 123. For a discussion of changes in the
county courts of the territory following the act of Congress of Mar. 3, 1823, see
Farris, “Courts of Terr. Fla.,” Fla. Hist. Quar., xix, 347–348.
** A Senator of the United States from Kentucky.
** Not present. See ante, pp. 356, 357.
* Not present. See ante, p. 489, n.
** Not present.
* See ante, p. 354, n.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 567
filed in the office of the secretary of state, you will see that the letter
of appointment inclosed is dated on the 15" day of March 1822. But
M* Hynes acted as Secretary, from about the first of January last, for
Mr. Reynolds about that time left Florida and went to Georgia, but
to whatever day up to which he was allowed for his services from that
time ought M* Hynes, allowance to commence, I recwed a letter from
Govenor Worthington some time last winter, in which he then in-
formed he had imployed Mr. Hynes as his Secretary—he had no other
Secretary after Mr. Reynolds but M* Hynes, who continued to act
as such up to the 30° of May last—when he left St. Augustine and
came with the counsel to Pensacola—I hope you will as soon as you
receive this letter, get Judge Gaither and M* Hynes account allowed,
and inform me as soon, as possible as Judge Gaither will return to
Florida by the 1* of Jary next, he is just married in this neighbour-
hood. I believe that five Dollars per day has been allowed to all
Secretarys who have acted in Florida If you could obtain a check on
the United States Branch Bank at Louisville for the amount and
inclose it to me, it would suit Judge Gaither & M" Hynes better than
to draw for the mony
Mr. Worthington having retired from East Florida, it is not in Mr.
Hynes power to obtain his cirtificate—but I inclose Judge Gaithers
affidavit on this subject” the reason why the letter of appointment
was not given untill March, was, that Gov" Worthington, at first did
not know how long Mr. Reynolds would be absent."
Your attention to this buisness will greatly oblige these gentlemen
Mº Adams has the funds in his hands to meet the expences of the
Goverment of Florida, by the first act of congress which appropriated
$100:000 for this purpose
Your friend
Wm P. DUVAL
HON” R. M JOHNSON Senator of the United States—
You will see on the accounts as rendered the name of Mr. Gaither
and Mr. Hynes signed leaving a blank for the recpts to be filled up
according to the forms of the office W* P. DUWAL
[Endorsed] W* P. Duvall Bards town 26 Sep. 1822
* Not present.
* See post, p. 615.



568 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY THE MAYOR AND
ALDERMEN OF ST. AUGUSTINE
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]
[November 29, 1822)
To the Honourable the Senate, and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled
The Memorial of the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Sº Augus-
tine, respectfully sheweth, that they have received from the Governor
of this Territory, authority to take possession of, and rent for the
benefit of the City, some houses and lots that were delivered up to the
American authorities as public property—Some of the property thus
delivered over as public property, unquestionably belongs to the City
of Sº Augustine: To some of it the City has a claim, from its having
been used by the Citizens as a common, from time immemorial: And
from the fact of its being a law in the celebrated code of the Indies,
that every City in the Spanish American empire should have a section
of land adjacent to the City to be used as a common: Some of this land
having been thus used from time immemorial, we have no doubt but
in both law and justice, it does belong to the City, although we can-
didly admit, that from the loss of documents, arising from the irregular
manner in which the archives have been kept, it may be a difficult
matter to prove a strictly legal title to be vested in the City: But we
rely upon the justice and generosity of Congress that they will not
mete out to us the strict letter of the Law, but that they will grant us
a donation and as a quit claim—the property contained in the Schedule
annexed to this Memorial:
The property we ask for is there apprised by three of our most
respectable Citizens
City of St Augustine November 29* 1822.
WATERS SMITH Mayor
S. STREETER
FRANCIS GUAE
ANTONIO ALWAREZ
EDWARD R GIBSON
P. LYNCH
FRANeo P. SANCHEZ
|Endorsed] East Florida Mayor, Aldermen &c of St Augustine city
property Jan’–13–1823 Ref" to Com. on the Judiciary * Jan’ 17.
1823 Refº to Com. Public Lands” disch" & to Pub. Lands Hernandez.
61. Judy
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 123.
* Ibid., p. 137, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 289. See act approved June 28, 1832, 4
STAT. 550.



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y
569
[Enclosure]
Valuation of Lots in St. Augustine
[November 19, 1822)
A Valuation of Public property in the City of S*Augustine, Territory
of Florida
N° 1 A Lot on the public square on which is the old Govern- Dollars
ment house about 150 feet front & 300 ft. deep—Walued
at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,000–
N° 2 A Vacant unenclosed lot on the Public Square about
75 by 150 feet Valued at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500
N° 3 A House and lot fronting the water, about 50 by 150
feet formerly the Spanish Armoury valued at . . . . . 400—
N° 4 A Lot about 200 feet square, say 34 Acre unenclosed, a
house on it that must be pulled down being dangerous,
Valued at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
N° 5 A Lot on which is the Hospital and Apothecaries Shop
about 125 feet Valued at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
N° 6 A Lot on which was formerly a Hospital but some years
since burned down, the rubbish remaining, which must be
removed—about 150 by 200—feet Valued at . . . . . . 600
N° 7 A Lot on the West of the town containing about seven
acres—Valued at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350
N° 8 A House and lot adjacent to the Customs House—
about 50 by 160 feet. Walued at . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000
N° 9 Six or seven Acres of uninclosed land at the south side
of the town surrounding the Powder house Valued at 400
$11.250
We appraised the within mentioned property, at Eleven thousand,
two hundred and fifty dollars,
ST. AUGUSTINE 19th November 1822
JOS. L. SMITH
G. W. PERPALL
J. RODMAN
[Endorsed) Valuation of Lots in St Augustine



570 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF EAST
FLORIDA
[NA;HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:DS”)
- [November 29, 1822)
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States, in Congress assembled
The Memorial of the Subscribers, inhabitants of East Florida,
respectfully represents:
That from the great extent of this Territory, and the distance and
difficulty of communication between its Western and Eastern extrem-
ity, much inconvenience has been experienced by the union of the two
Sections of the Territory under one local government. Great delays
and impediments have been experienced in the meeting of the Terri-
torial Legislature, the promulgation of the laws, regulations for elec-
tions and returns, and other important communications, connected
with the Public welfare.
The Spanish Government, aware of the inconvenience which would
result from the two Floridas being placed under one Government
found it necessary to constitute two seperate and distinct administra-
tions in the Country. Your memorialists, therefore, pray, that in
East Florida a Government may be formed Seperate from and inde-
pendent of West Florida, until the population of both Sections united,
may be adequate to the formation of a State. Your memorialists are
persuaded that such a measure would be highly beneficial to the welfare
and prosperity of the whole Territory
Your Memorialists further beg leave to represent, that although
the cultivation of the sugar cane and other valuable productions of
this country, afford a great and unprecedented inducement to the
Settlement of planters in this Territory; yet the Situation of public
affairs in the Territory has hitherto greatly discouraged settlers from
coming in and forming establishments. One great obstacle to the
settlement and improvement of the Country is the uncertainty which
exists in regard to the titles to land, particularly on account of the
claims of the United States. The delay which has taken place in
adjusting and determining these Claims has been one of the most serious
evils which this Country has experienced since the change of Govern-
ment. By this means the population of the Country has been greatly
retarded, persons desirous of forming settlements here, have been un-
willing to make purchases of lands, under the embarrassed and un-
certain claims of individuals and of the Government: and conse-
quently, the property of individuals as well as that of the Government
of the United States is experiencing a depreciation in value. Your
Memorialists therefore pray that an Act be passed authorizing the
immediate appointment of distinct and seperate land commissioners
* Printed also in H. Doc. 19, 17 Cong., 2 sess,



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 571
for this Section of the Territory, to adjust and determine the claims
of the Government of the United States, and to continue their sittings
until all the Claims be disposed of.”
And Your Memorialists respectfully Submit, whether the expense
attending the exhibition and proof of titles before such Commissioners
ought not to be borne by the Government of the United States, rather
than by the individuals, who are called upon to produce the same, in
as much as the exhibition of documents, in these cases, are made at the
call of the United States, and for their benefit
Your memorialists further pray, that as it will take some time before
the Land Commissioners will be able to adjust and determine all the
claims to land in this Territory, that an Act of Congress be passed
authorizing Citizens of the United States to settle upon the public
lands, known as such, and where no individual claims are in opposition,
giving public notice of the location, where the settlement is intended
to be made, with permission to remain on the Same, paying to the
United States the value which may hereafter be determined upon,
in regulating the prices of the public lands in this Territory; and what-
ever improvements shall be made shall be for the benefit of the United
States, should payment not be made accordingly *
Your memorialists further respectfully represent, that another cause
of the Slow population of this Territory, and of which the inhabitants
have much reason to complain, is the condition of the public roads.
It is a fact, that between this Territory and the State of Georgia,
there is no land communication required by the ordinary intercourse
between one State and Another. Your Memorialists therefore, sub-
mit this fact to the Consideration of Congress, in the confident hope
that Some provision will be made for the opening and construction
of roads and bridges
Your memorialists further beg leave to Suggest, as a means of
promoting the welfare and prosperity of this Territory and of the
United States, that a Light-house be erected at the entrance of the
harbour of Sº Augustine, at S*John's River, Mosquito, and Key West,”
and a beacon at the South end of Lake George
Your memorialists farther represent, that another and a very serious
cause, impeding the population of this Territory, is the situation of
affairs in regard to the Seminole Indians—a race of people whose
habits and occupations are at variance with those of the other in-
habitants of this Territory and with whom the mutual relations are
not known or understood—Your Memorialists therefore pray that
such convention, treaty, or arrangements may be made with these
* See act approved Mar. 3, 1823, 3 STAT. 754–756.
* See preemption act approved Apr. 22, 1826, 4 STAT. 154.
*7 Lighthouses were provided for as follows: St. Augustine, act approved Mar.
3, 1823 (3 STAT. 780); St. Johns River, act approved May 23, 1828 (4 STAT. 283);
Mosquito River, act approved June 30, 1834 (4 Stat. 721).



572 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Indians, as may be deemed fit and expedient, to ensure the tran-
quillity and security of this country
Your memorialists further beg leave to State, that among the ob-
stacles to the settlement of this Territory, may be reckoned the opinion
entertained by many British Emigrants of the validity of their claims,
under grants from the British Government, although those claims were
proscribed by a Royal order of the Spanish Government soon after
the cession of this Country to Spain by the British Government;
and those claims became absolutely extinct on the 2" day of October
1790 58
Your memorialists beg leave further to represent, that in their
opinion the public welfare would be promoted by a general election
of the members of the Legislative Council.
Your memorialists further respectfully represent, that they consider
the Act of the Legislative Council of this Territory, passed at the late
session in Pensacola providing for the levying of Taxes, as very ob-
jectionable, in as much as the taxes contemplated to be raised by that
act, would, according to the best calculations, exceed the amount of
the whole exports of the domestic produce of the Territory. A great
proportion of these taxes are intended to be levied on lands, which
are unimproved and unproductive, for the causes before mentioned,
and these taxes necessarily have a tendency to discourage settlers.
Your Memorialists therefore pray that an Act of Congress may be
passed, Suspending the Collection of these taxes, until the next meeting
of the Legislative Council of this Territory.
Another Act of the Legislative Council passed at their late session,
entitled “An Act providing for the election of a Delegate to Congress”
Your memorialists also consider as liable to very serious objection,
because, by one of the provisions of that Act, the common Soldiers
who may be in the Territory, without possessing the usual qualifica-
tions of voters, may exercise the right of suffrage, and by that means,
forming a body which would in all probability be under the complete
control of the officers, might, in defiance of the will of the other inhab-
itants of the Territory, at all times, decide the election. Your me-
morialists therefore pray that this evil may be remedied by an Act of
Congress.”
Your memorialists beg leave to represent that the establishment of
Inferior Courts of Justice in this Territory, except those of Justices
of the Peace, is attended with much expense; and, until the population
** These British land claims were not confirmed by the Boards of Land Com-
missioners or by Congress; see H.R.S., Fla., Spanish Lands Grants, II, lvii-lviii.
For an adverse report of the Board of Land Commissioners of W. Fla. regarding
these claims, see A.S.P., Pub. Lands, iv, 250–253, also published in White, New
Coll. Law8, II, 296–303.
* Section 15 of the act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 754), prohibited soldiers
from voting at the election for delegate.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 573
of the Country considerably increase, might be rendered unnecessary,
so far as regards the trial of civil and criminal causes, if Congress
would extend the jurisdiction of the Superior Court to all cases where
the Sum or value in controversy Should amount to fifty Dollars, giving
that Court also appellate jurisdiction, by appeal, certiorari, and writ
of error, from the decisions of the Justices of the Peace in all cases:–
and it would be greatly conducive to the ends of public justice, if an
appeal could be granted from the judgment of the Superior Court, in
all cases where the Sum or value, in controversy should amount to
$2,000 as in cases from the circuit courts of the United States under
the Judiciary Act of 24* September 1789 °–
By Order & on behalf of a Public Meeting of the Inhabitants of
East Florida held in the City of Sº Augustine the 29* day of November
1822
WATERS SMITH Chairman
Attest F: J: FATIO. Secretary
[Endorsed] 19. Memoria of the Inhabitants of East Florida, con-
vened in the City of Sº Augustine Jan’ 8–1823 Read, and ordered to
be printed * Hernandez 5
JOHN GARNIER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA, Novº 30° 1822–
To THE HON” J: QUINCY ADAMS. Secretary of State.
SIR, On my return to the city I was informed that Judge Shannon
late of the Court of Escambia, to which I was appointed by G"
Jackson, first associate Judge,” on application to the Depart" of State,
had obtained a settlement of the compensation due for his services"—
I beg leave, Sir, to sollicit the same justice & have the honor to inclose
a statement of the number of days of attendance, I have a right to
claim.*
I am with great Respect Sir, Your most obed “S”
JNO. GARNIER
[Addressed] The Hon. J: Quincy Adams Secretary of State,
Washington.
[Endorsed] J. Garnier 30 Nov 1822 with his a/c not allowed
601 STAT. 73–93. Congress did not go along with the suggested elimination
of the inferior courts, but the act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 752, sec. 7) did
provide for appeals from the Superior Courts to the Supreme Court of the United
States in cases involving amounts exceeding $1,000.
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 107. See post, p. 619.
* Ante, p. 132. *
* See post, p. 618.
* Answered post, p. 618.



574 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GEORGE W. BARKLEY TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA December 1* 1822
MY DEAR SIR; I have taken the liberty to inclose you, the statement
of (my father in Law) Judge Garniers services as 1* associate Judge
and presiding during the illness of his colleague Judge Shannon, Judge
Shannon by your letter to him was authorized to draw at the rate of
$5 per diem, there is no sum affixed to the days of service of Judge
Garniers statement and I would be obliged to you, if you will present
it to the Hon' the Secretary of state and inform me the amount allowed
so that Mr. G. can draw on the department your attention to this
Sir will much oblige me and I shall be happy to reciprocate at any
future occasion,
Give my respects to your Son Richard and I remain Dear Sir your
Obedient Servant
GEO. W. BARKLEY
To Fontaine MAURY Esq Washington City
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq." Depar" of State Washington City
D. C. Mail [Postmarked] Pensacola 2 Dec. 50
[Enclosure]
Statement of the Services of Judge Garnier
[November 30, 1822)
A Statement of the Services of John Garnier, 1" associate Judge of
the Court of Escambia, W. Florida
From the 6* of august 1821. until the new organisation, under the
act of Congress;
70. days setting as 1” ass. Judge
62. days ditto & attendance to the office as Presiding Judge during the
illness of Judge Shannon
PENSACOLA, Novº 30° 1822. JN° GARNIER
[Endorsed] Depart" of State.
JOHN RODMAN TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Custom House ST AUGUSTINE 3” December 1822
SIR. I take the liberty to inform you, that there are, under my
charge, in the public store attached to the Custom House, eight large
boxes of papers, which were taken, by direction of Mr Worthington,
while acting here as Governor, from the house of the late Spanish
Governor Coppinger. Many of these papers, it is believed, are of
great importance in regard to the titles to land in this Territory.



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 575
The royal orders, upon which many grants of land were made, are
said to be in some of the boxes: but were not found, on a very cursorary
examination, which was made by the Commissioners appointed by
Mr Worthington to look over the papers. Mr Reynolds, who has
lately been appointed by Governor Duval to be keeper of the public
archives * in this place, and who arrived here a few days ago, informs
me, that he does not consider his Commission as extending to the
charge of these documents. Under these circumstances and believing
that a minute examination of these papers will throw much light on the
subject of many of the grants of land in this Territory, I take the lib-
erty, with great respect, of suggesting the propriety of authorizing
Mr Reynolds (who from his knowledge of the Spanish language is well
qualified for the business), to take charge of, examine, and make out
an Inventory of all these documents, that persons whose interests
may be involved in their authenticity may at any time have recourse
to them.
I think it would be very useful to join with Mr Reynolds, or any
other person who may be appointed to examine these papers, Mr An-
tonio Alvarez, who was for some time the Secretary of Governor
Coppinger, and who is a gentleman of much respectability resident
here, being now the President of the Board of Alderman of this City.”
With great respect I have the honour, to be, Sir, Your obedient
Servant
JOHN RODMAN Collector of St. Augustine
THE HON. JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] The Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Wash-
ington
[Endorsed] Rodman John St Augustine 3 Dec 1822 Recd 23”
florida Documents
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO ARTHUR W.
THORNTON
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 4)
Decem' 6th 1822
L* A. W. THORNTON Pensacola
SIR. The Secretary of Florida Col” Walton has stated to the Sec-
retary of War that some doubt exists as to what portion of the public
** An act of the Legislative Council of Aug. 31, 1822, provided for the appoint-
ment by the Governor of two keepers of public archives, one for the counties of
St. John's and DuVal to reside at St. Augustine, and the other for the counties of
Escambia and Jackson to reside at Pensacola (Fla., Acts, 1822, p. 46–48).
William Reynolds was given the former appointment, and Antonio Alvarez the
latter.
* Answered post, p. 657.



576 T E R R IT OR 1 A L PA P E R S
buildings at Pensacolabelong to the Civiland what to the Mily Dep**—
The order of the 19* July * was intended to include the Goverment
House, Prison, & Custom House as the buildings to be turned over to
the Territorial Authorities, but the Block Hospital, Barracks & Store
Houses being purely Military, were designed to be returned.”
You will report immediately what disposition has been made of them.
I am Sir. &"
-
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 152:LS)
NEAR PENSACOLA, Dec 8* 1822.
SIR; Before this reaches Washington, you will have received my
communication of the 24" ultimo,” informing you of the measures
which I had adopted, for the purpose of furnishing the Indians with
supplies, who were invited by the talk of Governor Duval, to meet
him or the Indian agent in Council, at St. Marks, on the 20" of No-
vember; and to conciliate them, by explaining the causes which had
produced a postponement of the negociation. By the mail before the
last, I had the honor of receiving your letter, dated 23% of October,”
in which you express your approval of the postponement, for the
reasons suggested by Governor Duval, and directs me not to take any
steps for holding a treaty with the Indians, at the above-mentioned
period. I should have replied to this communication immediately
after its arrival; but considered it most advisable not to do so, until I
could ascertain the result of Maj. Wright's mission to St. Marks,
which I have now the honor to communicate You will readily dis-
cover, that the steps which were taken by me, touching this transac-
tion, had been adopted anterior to the receipt of your last letter.—
From the report of Maj. Wright, a copy of which I have enclosed,
it appears that the course I have pursued, is calculated to accomplish
the beneficial effects intended. Should not the supplies be distributed
amongst the Indians, as contemplated; they may be used by the troops
at St. Marks; in which event, the Government will be exposed to no
additional expence. You will see from the reciept * of Lieut. Hutter,”
asst. Commy. of Sub. herewith transmitted, that the most advantage-
ous arrangement has been made in the disposition of these provisions.
97 Cf. ante, p. 562.
** Ante, p. 493.
* See post, p. 600.
70 NA(WD, SW Lets. Recd., W140), concerning provisions for the Indians
and enclosing letters from Col. Eustis and Capt. Morris relative to disturbances
among them. See also ante, p. 556.
7. Ante, p. 554.
* Not present.
* George C. Hutter.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 577
Under these circumstances, and for the reasons contained in my
letter of the 24” of November, it is to be hoped, that what I have
done may meet with the approbation of your Department.—
It is gratifying to learn from Maj. Wright's report, that there is no
inclination amongst the Indians of Florida to commence hostilities
with the whites, or amongst themselves, as intimated in a communica-
tion of Mr Dexter to Colo. Eustis,” a copy of which has already been
forwarded to the Department of War. I had previously, received a
letter from Colo. Eustis, of the 22% of October,” in which he assures
me, that the alarm amongst the Seminoles upon the subject, has been
discovered to be wholly without foundation.
Colo. Humphreys has not yet arrived;" nor have I received any
advices as to his movements, which will enable me to anticipate when
he will report himself for instructions.”—
With the highest Consideration, I am Yº Mo. Obt. Sert.
GEO. WALTON Sec'y & Actg. Gov: of the Terry of Florida
HoNºlº J. C. CALHOUN, Secy at War, Washington City.
[Endorsed] Walton, G &c Pensacola, 8 Dec 1822 Enclosing report
of Maj' Wright relative to the Success of measures for pacifying the
Indians in Florida on account of the postponement of the treaty Colo.
Walton to Mº Calhoun.
[Enclosure]
Thomas Wright to Acting Governor Walton
A Copy of Maj. Wrights Report to Colo. Walton.
PENSACOLA, 7” Dec 1822.
SIR: I have the honor to advise you of my return to this city, from
St. Marks, last evening, after an absence of fifteen days. I was pre-
pared to sail on the 18* Novº with the provisions, &c. for the Indians,
ordered by Govt Duval to assemble at St. Marks on the 20° of that
month. A severe storm, however, prevented the vessel from leaving
the port before the 21”. On the 27* we reached St. Marks; where I
learned, three of the chiefs had promptly obeyed the order of the
Gov" by attending at the time appointed. Not finding the Gov' or
agent, they returned to their towns on the 23* I could then only
assemble some of the neghboring chiefs, (among them Eneamathla,"
the principal of his nation) and deliver to them the talk with which
you entrusted me; together with such other explanations, as were
* Dated Oct. 8, 1822, forwarded by Eustis on Oct. 17, 1822 (ante, p. 547), and
now filed with that letter.
75 Not found.
* See post, p. 598.
77 Answered Jan. 9, 1823 (NA,OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E), expressing approval
of steps taken toward the Indians.
78 Neamathla.
801867–57–38



578 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
necessary to convince them, that there was no disposition on the part
of the Government, or of Gov" Duval, to neglect, disappoint, or
trifle with them. Blount, Yellow Hair, and Turke-hayo, the chiefs
who were at St. Marks on the 20" appeared, (as I was advised by the
officers of the garrison) somewhat disposed to distrust the sincerity
of the Government, on not finding the Gov' or agent, at the time and
place appointed to hold the talk. Capt. Morris, commandant of the
Fort, dispatched an Indian runner to Eneamathla and other chiefs,
on the day of my arrival, with instructions to meet me the next day,
(28 Nov.) which were promptly attended to. In the course of the
day, Eneamathla, Olochtamica, Chificknico Hadjo, chief of Ocilleys,”
Forhachtimico, Leghlaficksico, and Hopoi Tuskamicksy arrived;
to whom I explained the causes of the Gov' or agent failing to meet
at St. Marks, on the day appointed; and delivered to them your talk,
through the Interpreter Hardridge,” with which they were well
satisfied, notwithstanding the great anxiety expressed to know the exact
situation in which they stand with the Government of the United
States. The principal chief, Eneamathla, assured me, that he, his
chiefs and warriors, would remain peaceable and contented, until
an authorized agent should arrive, for the purpose of establishing a
definite and durable understanding between them and the government.
The provisions intended for the Indians (expected to assemble at
St. Marks,) I turned over to Lt. Hutter, acting asst. Com” of Subsist-
ence, for the use of the troops or Indians, as the case might be; (they
were then in want of them). the receipt of Lieut. Hutter, I send you
herewith. Although these provisions were not made use of as in-
tended, I am convinced they served to satisfy the chiefs whom I met,
and through them the whole nation, that the Gov" was well disposed
towards them; and would take such measures, as would ultimately
secure to them their rights. And again,_the circumstance of their
knowing the fact, that provisions were depositted at St. Marks,
originally intended for their use, and now subject to their wants,
under the particular directions and limits of the Secr'y of War, will
have a strong tendency to make them remain peaceable and well dis-
posed; particularly as their crops were extremely scant the last
summer, and many of them they say, will suffer with hunger without
aid from the Government.—
I feel fully authorized in assuring you, that no apprehension should
be entertained of the friendly disposition of these Indians. They have
no inclination to commence hostilities with the whites, or among
themselves, as has been intimated to you. There is some considerable
anxiety felt and expressed by the Whites, who have settled on lands
tº Presumably the Seminoles from Ocilla, a town on the east bank of the river
of the same name in Taylor County.
80 James Hardridge.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 579
comprehended in what is termed Forbes' grant, as to the probable
result of the contemplated treaty with the Seminole Indians.
The understanding from the officers of the Fort and some citizens
resident on the Apalatchicola, that a Mº Richards, an Indian Inter-
preter, appointed by Gov" Duval, had, for some time past, been in-
triguing with Eneamathla and other chiefs, and exciting them to
assert and maintain their right to the lands they now occupy, in order
that he may obtain from them a tract of six miles square, which
he says, they have promised him. I deemed it proper, under these
circumstances, to say nothing to the chiefs on the subject; more
particularly, as I had recd no instructions from you to do so.-
It is not necessary for me to go into a detail of the malconduct of
this Richards; as Capt. Morris and Mº Doyle, the latter a prisoner
at the instance of Richards, both now in the city, will give you a full
and candid statement. I would, however recommend, that he should
not only be deprived of his present appointment, but be driven from
the country; as I am fully convinced of his villainy, and disposition to
excite jealousy and hatred in the Indians towards the honest white
population, as well as the government of the United States.
I am, with high respect, Yr Mo. Obt:
THO. WRIGHT, P. Master U. S. A.
HIS EXCELY. GEORGE WALTON, Sec'y. & Actg. Govt of Florida.
[Endorsed] Copy of a Report from Maj" Wright to Colo. Walton.
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO GEORGE N. MORRIS
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book A)
GENERAL POST OFFICE Decembr 11th 1822,
CAPT GEO. N. MORRIS Comº at St Marks Flor—Fort Mitchel G”
SIR The unfitness of the P. M. at Coweta is to be regretted and
the more so as there is no better to be found at that place & the com-
pensation will not induce any one to settle there—By the map Telfair-
ton Telfair C. G. appears to be nearer to S' Marks than F" Mitchel—
If the road is equally good—I would suggest your making your com-
munications through that office—In this case it might be advisable
to inform the P. Masters at F* Mitchel & Fº Hawkins as well as your
correspondents of the arrangem"—
Congress has established a Post road from Sº Augustine by S*Marks
to Pensacola,” no mail has been sent, or Contract made for the route
in consequence of information received that there is no road—If you
are acquainted with any practicable road you will oblige me by point-
ing & stating the distances from Creek to Creek or River as the case
may be— -
R. J. MEIGS Jº
* Act approved Mar. 3, 1823, 3 STAT. 765.



580 T E R R I TOR 1 A L PA P E R S
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
WASHINGTON 15 Dec. 1822
SIR. I have found upon an examination of the correspondence from
the Commissioners appointed under “An act for ascertaining claims
and Titles to Lands within the Territory of Florida” that they con-
sider it impossible, to transact the business entrusted to them, within
the time prescribed, and invite the attention of Congress, to the neces-
sity of passing a supplemental act, to extend their session.”
The malignant fever, which unhappily desolated Pensacola, is
represented as the principal cause of interruption to the progress
of their examinations. If in the slightest degree, the Grants in West
Florida, partake of the exceptionable character of those in the East,
it would be peculiarly injudicious to precipitate the Commissioners
in the termination of their labours. When Congress legislated upon
this subject they were possibly not aware of the numerous and exten-
sive concessions made by the Governors of Florida and especially
since the year 1815 and immediately anticedent to January 1818–
It is understood, that in East Florida, there are no less than twelve
hundred Spanish and it is believed the British will not fall short of
five hundred—
The peculiar munificence of the Grants said to be made by Governor
White,” will require the most scrupulous investigation; the general
reputation of that Gentleman being in direct hostility to any semblance
of prodigality. The Royal order of 1815, confirmatory or perhaps
more correctly, prospectively approbatory of the remunerative do-
nations of Governor Kindeland,” to those who had shown their
loyalty in the revolution of 1812 has been the foundation of the most
preposterous extravagance by Governor Coppinger. Many indi-
viduals are the subjects of repeated Royal Bounty and in several
instances, upon a remuneration of services, the pretexts of anticedent
donations.
With these circumstances, certain to involve a mature investigation
in difficulty and embarrassment, added to the alleged necessity of
prolonging the Board of Commissioners in West Florida, it would
be adviseable to create a new Board for similar purposes in East
Florida.
The inducements for such an arrangement must appear evident,
whether the immediate interests of individuals or the public be
considered—on the score of economy the advantage to the nation al-
though inconsiderate nevertheless preponderates. To private claim-
* Approved May 8, 1822, 3 STAT. 709–718.
* Cf. ante, pp. 552, 563.
* Enrique White, Spanish Governor of E. Fla., 1795–1811.
* Sebastian Kindelan y Oregón, Spanish Governor of E. Fla., 1812–1815.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 581
ants it will be but justice and absolutely important, for embarrassed
as their property now is, every moment of procrastination, is to them
a source of positive sacrifice. Those whose claims will most probably
be confirmed cannot sell and dare not cultivate; while on the con-
trary those concessions, the magnitude of which, have naturally ex-
cited the jealousy of Congress, are constantly gaining consequence,
as they become every day more the subjects of speculation to men of
wealth, reputation and influence and whativer may be the result of
their expectations, they will introduce settlers, hereafter to become
pertinacious petititioners to the liberality and munificence of Govern-
ment. The capability of this Country to produce the most valuable
subjects of Culture, the sugar cane, the best sea Island Cotton, the
Cuba Tobacco and all the tropical fruits, including the olive, with
Oranges Limes and Lemons in great abundance and of superior quality
calls for the most efficient and fostering attention. The salubrity
of the climate is unquestionable, notwithstanding the extraordinary
malady in Pensacola this year and in Sº Augustine the last, in each of
which places, the first appearance of the Fiver was preceded by a
peculiarity of circumstances, at all times to be guarded against—
If, as it appears probable, from the statement of the Commissioners
Mess. Ware and Overton, that their session will be extended, until
the coming winter, and, as a period, equal to that, which will be neces-
sary in West Florida, will be requisite in East Florida, two years will
be the time to which the continuance of the present Board must be
extended, provided the whole business be confided to them, at an
expense of twelve thousand dollars; consequently if an additional
Board be established and the same business can be done in half the
time which will be consumed by the one, the charge upon the Govern-
ment will be the same, while the public lands will be more speedily
ascertained.
The requisites of the present law operate with unexpected hardship
upon the heirs and representatives of such persons who have held
their lands by descent for centuries, particularly in the Cities where
the public property has been designated with scrupulous accuracy in
the official shedules and while the public can anticipate no advantage,
individuals are to be put to great expense and exposed in the “de-
raignment” of their titles, to much subsequent vexatious litigation—
In most instances lands granted for Head Rights in conformity to the
Royal order of 1791 exceed the number of acres to which the con-
firmatory powers of the Commissioners extend and as these grants
are esteemed, as having been made in good faith it would be an equit-
able indulgence to individuals to have the powers of the Commis-
sioners enlarged—
The Church of St Augustine built by, private and public contri-
butions, has been transferred to the United States as public property,



582 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
there never having been any grant or concession of it to the inhabi-
tants, by the King or his authorized Agents—I have understood, that
all the correspondence in relation to this subject between Governor
Qusada" and the Court of Spain is to be found in the twelve Boxes
of papers claimed to be public and as belonging to the King of Spain
by Governor Coppinger—The building of the Church was certainly
commenced by private contributions and finally completed by dona-
tions from the King—with the facts, the interference of Congress will
be necessary, to confirm the right of the Church, to the Roman
Catholic inhabitants of St Augustine.”
If Congress exempt antient grantees from the necessity of exhibit-
ing, their titles, they can authorise the Commissioners in all suspicious
circumstances to call for an exhibition *—
I have the honor to be with great respect your Obt H Sert
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
To JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Esq. Secº of State.
[Addressed] To the Honorable John Quincy Adams Secretary of
State Dept of State
[Endorsed] Hamilton Alex' Wasn. 15 Dec 1822 Recd 16th Affairs
of Florida
THOMAS METCALFE 89 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
HOUSE OF REP's 17th Dec 1822
THE HONB'. JNO Q ADAMS
SIR I am instructed by the Committee on Indian affairs, to whom
was refered so much of the Presidents Message as relates to the
Indians in Florida, respectfully to ask for all the information relative
thereto, which may be in the Power of that Dept to furnish. By
what tenure do the various tribes alluded to by the President hold
their claims? And what the extent of territory claimed thereby
I have the honor to be With high respect Your Most Obt. Svt
THOS METCALFE
[Addressed] Honb'Jno Q Adams
[Endorsed] Metcalfe Thos—H. R. 17 Dec 1822 Recd 18th. Indian
Claims to Land in Florida.
* Juan Nepomuceno de Quesada, Spanish Governor of E. Fla., 1789–1796.
87 See ante, p. 498, n.
* See post, p. 623.
* A Representative in Congress from Kentucky.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 583
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
Decemb' 17th 1822.
HoN" John QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
I have been compelled by the peculiar situation of my private
affairs to be in Kentucky for a short time.” I am happy to state
that I shall be on my way to Florida in three or four weeks as my
private buisness will be by that time arranged
I will thank you to inform the President of the United States, that
I will loose no time in returng. to Florida so that I may render to him
Such further account of the situation, and interests of that section of
Country as may be necessary for his information & views"
with sentiments of high esteem your Obt Servt
Wm P DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] Bardstown Ky Dec. 16 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Governor Kentucky 17 Dec 1822 Recd 7th Jan:
1823. His Return to Florida.
SAMUEL MYERS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
COLLECTORS OFFICE PENSACOLA Dec. 18" 1822.
SIR I feel it a duty incumbent on me acting as a public officer
& therefore take the liberty, especially as it seems the business of no
person here in particular, to inform the government of the depreda-
tions committed on the public timber in this vicinity—
The lands on the Rivers & Bays immediately east of this place
are fast settling by the description of persons called Squatters & the
destruction of timber is very considerable; in many places however
it is only of the ordinary qualities & therefore of less importance;
but there is on the several streams emptying into yellow water Bay
among other places, a growth of Live oak & Cedar of singular beauty
& value, the latter of which in particular, being more easily hewn &
transported, is already in those places & even on the unsettled lands,
in danger of total destruction, & will prove a loss to the navy, perhaps
irreparable—
About two months since the mercantile house of Allen & Wilson
of this place, dispatched the Brig Franklin with a full cargo of timber
for Philadelphia, composed chiefly of this cedar, the great proffit &
perfect impunity of which operation are likely it seems to cause it to
be renewed on an extensive scale—Mr Scott the Collector, who was
*0 Ante, p. 534.
* See post, p. 599.



584 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
then at the head of this office from which he has since resigned and
retired, had considered and consulted on the subject long before that
occurrence, but discovered no lawful manner in which he could inter-
fere to repress the practice—
It is for the wisdom of the Government to devise a remedy for this
serious evil: I will myself however whilst upon the subject, presume
so far as to suggest that there are points at which small military posts,
authorized by an Act of the last session,” may be established very
advantageously for that purpose at no inconvenient distance from
this place: though this timber being chiefly cut for shipment abroad
& coastwise & having therefore of necessity to pass under the notice
of the custom house in most cases, by the officers of which the facts
may with no great difficulty be ascertained, an Act making it their
duty to interfere in an efficient manner, would probably be more
effectual, provided it is not permitted by such means as petitions to
procure the appointment of men, whom respectable persons are in this
way sometimes induced inconsiderately to recommend, not feeling or
finding themselves immediately interested in this as in other respects,
to do their duty "-
I have the honor to be With very great respect Sir Your most obt
Sert
SAML MYERS Depy for Alexander Scott late Collector
THE HONBLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Myers Samuel Jr Pensacola 18 Dec 1822.
RESOLUTION BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:DS)
In the House of Representatives of the United States.
December 19, 1822.
RESOLVED, That the President of the United States be requested to
cause to be laid before this House the several laws which have been
made by the Governor and Legislative Council of Florida, together
with such information relative thereto as may be in possession of the
Executive not improper to be communicated, showing the necessity,
propriety and practical effect of such laws.”
Attest M* Sº CLAIR CLARKE Clerk Hº Rep
[Endorsed] House of Representatives 19 Dec 1822 Rec" 20th Reso-
lution, Requesting the laws made by the Governor and Legislative
ouncil of Florida.
* Not identified. There is, however, an act of the first session of the Seven-
teenth Congress, approved Feb. 23, 1822 (3 STAT. 651), for the protection of
Florida timber but it makes no mention of military posts.
* No reply found.
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 59.



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 585
ELIAS B. GOULD TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE 24th December 1822.
HON. J. Q. ADAMS
SIR-I this day received your letter, containing authority and in-
structions for publishing the laws.” I accept this commission with
thankfulness; and shall endeavour, by a proper course, to merit the
approbation of the department. I also gladly embrace the oppor-
tunity of sending my papers from the commencement; though from
our present isolated situation and the depression under which we have
laboured, and do still labour, there is not much contained in them,
either of a local or general nature. There are many things which
require the attention of Congress, before we can expect to emerge from
the state which I have alluded to, and any efforts, which can reason-
ably be made by the department, I am sensible will be meet with
grateful feelings by the inhabitants of this Territory.
I am respectfully your obedient servt.
E B GOULD
[Addressed] Hon. John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
D. C. [Postmarked] St Augustine Decr 24 Free
[Endorsed] E. B. Gould Sº Augustine 24 Dec 1822 R* 13 Jan”
HARVEY BROWN TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Recd.:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE December 30, 1822
SIR. I have the honor, herewith, to enclose you a correspondence,
between Lieut Col. Eustis commanding at this Post, and Waters
Smith Esqr Mayor, of the City, relative to some property belonging
to the United States.
I am also directed by Lieut. Col. Eustis to give you a statement of
facts concerning this property.
In the distribution of the public property in this city, between the
civil & military authorities, after specifying some particular lots that
should belong to the civil, and some, to the military departments, the
President of the United States, directed that “all other public property
should be in charge of the military department.--The civil authorities
have, long since, been formally put in possession of those lots & build-
ings which were assigned to them;-but, not content with this, and
regardless of the orders of the President, the municipal authorities,
have wrested from the hands of the military, a portion of the property
committed to their charge;—during the absence of Col Eustis and
* Not found.



586 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
entirely without my knowledge, they possessed themselves of the
house and lot, known by the name of the “Dragoon Barracks,” rased
the building to the ground, and disposed of the materials for the benefit
of the city. They have, also, publickly offered to rent a tenement
known as the “Smithy” which is now, and always has been in the
actual occupancy of the military. These two buildings were both
turned over by the Spanish authorities to the U. S. and by what title
or upon what plea, the city claims them I am unable to say. The
Mayor in his letter (B) states that these two buildings are entirely
detached from the fort or barracks;–the former is so, but the latter
almost immediately adjoins the fort, their being only a small smithy
between them, erected and claimed by the late Spanish Royal Arm-
ourer, I know not by what right or tittle.
There are three small tenements on the eastern extremity of the
public square, that have always paid, to the Spanish Government a
ground rent;-since they have been in possession of the United States,
I have exacted & received, a similar rent.—I am unofficially informed
that the corporation has forbidden the occupants, to make any further
payment to the U. S. and that they intend to prosecute me for the
rent, which I have already received.
It is entirely impossible, that the corporation was not aware that
the above property was in charge of the military authorities, as, I,
myself, informed the mayor of it.
The claims of the city authorities are so undefined, that I do not
know, where they will cease, but, they appear disposed to extend them
to all the property within the bounds of the city, for they already talk,
of having the Fort for a penitentiary, the magazine for a Gaol, and
the Sº Francis Barracks for a college.”
I have the honor to be Sir Your Most. Ob" Humble Servant
- Harvey Brown Post Q Mas” ”
BRIG. GEN' JESUP Qr M. Gen!
[Addressed] Brig. Gen' Jesup Qr Maste Gen.'
[Endorsed] Liu” Harvey Brown St Augustine Decem' 30° 1822
Jany 20° 1822
96 For the outcome of this dispute, see post, p. 604, n.
97 A number of letters written by Brown to the Quartermaster General during
1822 exhibit the difficulties he experienced in finding quarters for officers and in
repairing the public buildings at St. Augustine: Jan. 15, Jan. 22, Apr. 6, and May
28, 1822, in NA(WD, QMG Lets. Recd.). Communications to him from the
Quartermaster General, dated Jan. 9, Apr. 25, May 8, and June 10, 1822 are in
NA(WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 3, 4). Concerning the public buildings at St.
Augustine, see also Worthington to the Secretary of State, July 29, 1822 (NA,
SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x); Worthington to the Secretary of War, Sept. 9, 1822
(NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., W.193),



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 587
[Enclosures]
Abraham Eustis to Waters Smith
(Copy) ST. AUGUSTINE Dec. 11. 1822
SIR. I have been unofficially advised, that the Corporation of
the City of St. Augustine, has taken possession of a portion of the
publick property of the U. S. committed to my charge by the Presi-
dent;-has caused the building known by name of the “dragoon
Barracks” to be pulled down, & the materials to be disposed of, &
has offered to rent the building known as the “Smithy” now in the
actual occupation of the military.
Entertaining a full respect for the authorities of the city, I take
the liberty to solicit of you official information on this subject, and
to enquire on what ground the corporation of the City claims the
right, of disposing of property of the U. S. which has been positively
placed, by the order of the President in charge of the military.
I have the honor to enclose a copy of my instructions in relation
to this property and am With high respect &" &"
AB" EUSTIS
WATERS SMITH Esqr. Mayor of St. Augustine
Waters Smith to Abraham Eustis
(Copy) CITY OF ST AUGUSTINE 26* December 1822
DEAR SIR, In reply to your letter of the 11* instant. I have
the honor to State, that the property to which your enquiries have
reference, is Considered in the legal possession of the Corporation
of this City and subject to its Controul and disposition on the ground
of ownership.
A special detail of title will not now be deemed necessary; It is
sufficient to remark, that by the laws of Spain applicable to this
Country, in relation to the laying out and establishment of Towns;
upon principles which apply to the City in its Corporate Character,
and from the public Archives, facts and usages which relate to it,
the Corporation views its title as most satisfactory and valid.
It is due Sir, to the authorities of the City, that I should observe,
that in the Course taken in respect to this property, they have not
been actuated by the most distant intention of infringing on Military
right; Their interest and feelings would lead them, equally to avoid
collisions, and to cultivate the most harmonious understanding with
the military functionaries stationed at St Augustine. It was not to
be supposed that an unoccupied and uninclosed lot near the Centre
of the Town and the building upon it termed in your letter the
“Dragoon Barrack,” in a state of such dilapidation as to Cause it to
be deemed a nuisance; or that the dwelling house, “known as the
Smithy” tenanted by a single family, situated in a populous part



588 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A. P. E. R. S.
of the City, and like the Dragoon intirely seperate and distinct from
the fort and the Barracks occupied by the Troops under your Com-
mand, should have been Considered by the Corporation of Sº Augus-
tine as Committed to “Military charge by the President of the United
States” As little did it seem from facts known, that the Corporate
authorities, even on principles of Courtesy, were called upon to com-
municate with the military Commandant, before the Steps mentioned
in your letter where taken by them.
Their way appeared clear; the property belonged to the City, and
they were not aware of any existing Military claim. In addition to
these considerations, if any thing more were necessary, they acted
under the authority of the Governor of the Territory.
It cannot Sir, be admitted by me as Mayor of this City, nor will the
Constituded authorities thereof be induced to believe, that on the
exchange of Goverments because the property in question, like the
public square the Cathedral and City market house, fell under military
Controul, that the City is thereby divested of its title or, that such
property legally Continued subject to martial rule, after the establish-
ment here of distinct Civil powers: I must add also, in relation to the
order from the War Department, (a copy of which you have been good
enough to furnish me) that while I express the utmost deference and
respect for the official station of the Secretary of War: I cannot for a
moment subscribe to the assumption, that he is authorized to dispose
of the rights of this city; to distribute or Controul its property. or to
direct it to remain in Charge of the military or of any other Authority.
Our Government Sir, is a Government of Laws, not of persons.
By your letter however, and by the above order I am informed, that
by direction from the President of the United States Communicated
through the Secretary of War you stand charged with this property.
In our personal Interviews Prior and subject to the letter I understood
you to say, that you were willing and desirous to be released by the
War department from this charge and that the possession of the
Property was not necessary to the accomodation of your troops.
In this view of the Subject and after what I have written in reply to
your enquiries; asserting the rights of the City, I cannot but consider
it proper and adviseable for me as Mayor thereof, in order that here-
after there may be no misapprehension or Collision on this Subject
between the Military and City authorities to request of you; which I
do respectfully and formally, to make application to the Department
of War, for further instructions in relation to this property, and for
authority hence forward to Consider yourself discharged from the
possession and Controul of all Buildings, lots and property belonging
to this City.



FLOR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 589
I have the honor to be Sir, with great respect and most sincere
personal regard Your Obdt Servt
(Signed) WATERS SMITH
Mayor of the City of St Augustine.
LIEUT COLABR" EUSTIS Comº U. S. Troops St Augustine.
Abraham Eustis to Waters Smith
(Copy) ST. AUGUSTINE Dec. 27, 1822.
DEAR SIR. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of yesterday in reply to mine of the 11* inst.
I had hoped to receive a more categorical answer, to the question I
had proposed.—I neither expected, nor wished so elaborate a replica-
tion to a note which I addressed to you in all possible frankness, and
which remained fifteen days unanswered,—I must not, & will not be
drawn into a discussion of claims to property.—I profess a full respect
for the constituted authorities of the City, and flatter myself, that I
have as much at heart its permanent interests and future prosperity,
as any one residing within its limits;–But I am here officially charged
by the government of the U.S. with the care of certain buildings lots
&° turned over to them, by the late Spanish authorities, as belonging
to the sovereignty; and it is not for me to decide whether or not this
was done with propriety.
The Corporation of the City has thought proper to wrest a portion
of this property from my possession;–I have not offered, nor do I
intend to offer, the slightest resistance to this procedure; All that I
have now to do, is to submit this correspondence, with the facts in
relation to it, to the Department of war, and I entertain no doubt that
I shall, in consequence, receive further instructions, in relation to this
property.
I beg you to accept both personally & officially, the assurance of my
esteem & respect.
ABn EUSTIS Lt Col!
WATERS SMITH Esq." Mayor &"
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM F. STEELE AS UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[January 6, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the In-
tegrity, Ability and Learning of WILLIAM F. STEELE of Georgia,” I
* Steele was nominated by the President on Jan. 3, 1823, and confirmed by the
Senate on Jan. 6 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 318, 319). The commission was
transmitted to him on Jan. 22, 1823 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx). A number of



590 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the
Senate, do appoint him Attorney of the United States for that part
of the Territory of Florida, known as West Florida as well as Attorney
for the same part of said Territory; and do authorize and empower
him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law;
and to Have and to Hold the same together with all the powers
privileges and emoluments thereto of right appertaining unto him the
said William F. Steele for the term of four years from the day of the
date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time
being should be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission."
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Wash-
ington the Sixth day of January A.D. 1823; and of the Independence
of the United States of America, the Forty Seventh.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM SEBREE AS UNITED STATES
MARSHAL (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
|January 6, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the In-
tegrity Ability and Diligence of WILLIAM SEBREE * of Kentucky, I
recommendations for his appointment are in NA (SD, Applications). The Presi-
dent and members of the Georgia Senate and House of Representatives signed
communications in Nov. and the judges of the Georgia Superior Courts one of
Nov. 22, 1822. Recommendations to the President came from Joel Crawford, a
former Representative in Congress from Georgia, Nov. 18, and from Freeman
Walker, a former Senator from that State, Dec. 7. Steele himself visited Wash-
ington in December, and on the 17th transmitted to the Secretary of State a
recommendation signed by members of the New Jersey delegation in Congress,
Dec. 9, and others signed by members of the Georgia delegation, Dec. 12 and
undated.
1 Several other persons were interested in this appointment. William Cook,
of Monticello, Ga., solicited the aid of Rep. George R. Gilmer (Ga.) in a letter of
Dec. 7 (loc. cit.). Governor DuVal recommended Richard K. Call to the Secre-
tary of State, Sept. 9, 1822 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.), and Sept. 10, 1822 (ante, p. 531).
Morrison Hunter, of Alabama, was recommended to the President by Joseph M.
White, Sept. 6, 1822 (NA, SD, Applications). Another recommendation on
Hunter's behalf, dated at Pensacola on Sept. 26, was signed by F. Christing,
J. Moreno, Julius Pescay, Juan Palilan, J. Noriega, and Eu. Lorna (loc. cit.).
* Sebree was nominated by the President on Jan. 3, 1823, and confirmed by the
Senate on Jan. 6 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 318, 319). The commission was sent
to him on Jan. 16 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx). For his acceptance, see post, p.



FL OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 591
have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the
Senate, do appoint him Marshal * in and for that part of the Territory
of Florida known as West Florida; and do authorize and empower
him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law;
and to Have and to Hold the said Office with all the powers, privileges
and emoluments to the same of right appertaining unto him the said
William Sebree for the term of four years from the day of the date
hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being
should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.*
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Sixth day of January A.D. 1823; and of the Independence of the
United States of America the Forty Seventh.”
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
676. A Kentuckian, Sebree was recommended to the Secretary of State by Rep.
John T. Johnson (Ky.) and Sen. Richard M. Johnson (Ky.), Dec. 19, 1822 (NA,
SD, Applications), and to the President, Dec. 30, 1822, by Rep. Johnson, Thomas
Metcalfe, James D. Breckinridge, and David Trimble (loc. cit.).
* A number of applicants for this appointment had come forth in the preceding
year. Daniel Duval, of Mobile, Ala., had been recommended to the Secretary
of State by Harry Toulmin, May 22, 1822. Thomas Brownejohn, a resident of
Pensacola was recommended to the Secretary of War, July 23, by William Barnett
of that place. Joseph Shomo, a late captain of the Fourth U. S. Infantry, then at
Pensacola, applied to the President, July 28, and was supported by a recommen-
dation signed by T. B. Harrison, J. C. Bronaugh, Samuel R. Overton, Edmund
Law, George Murray, D. L. Clinch, and C. Nichols [Cary Nicholas?], July 28.
William Davison, the sheriff at Pensacola, was recommended to the President by
Joseph M. White and Joseph E. Caro, also of Pensacola, Oct. 28. On behalf of
Davison came another recommendation from the same place, Nov. 20, signed
by John R. Fenwick, N. Shackelford, Joseph Noriega, Joseph E. Caro, and
Joseph M. White. Davison on Nov. 29 solicited the aid of Andrew Jackson, who
on Dec. 30 wrote to the President. All of the recommendations mentioned are
found in NA (SD, Applications).
* An earlier appointee to this position never undertook the duties of the office.
A commission as marshal of W. Fla., dated May 7, 1822 (NA, SD, Misc. Perm.
Comms.), for Benjamin Robertson was sent to Judge Brackenridge on June 11
(NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XIX). After receiving a letter from Brackenridge, Aug. 4,
1822 (ante, p. 505), which reported the failure of Robertson to arrive at Pensacola
the Sec. of State wrote to the latter at Fayetteville, N. C., Aug. 30, expressing the
wish of the President that he lose no time in going to his post, if he wished to
hold the commission (ibid.). A letter of Sept. 7, 1822, signed “Benjamin Robinson”
(not Robertson), stated that he had become sick in July when about to travel to
Fla. and would not recover for several weeks, and therefore resigned the com-
mission (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). From this last letter it is evident that the com-
mission had been issued in the wrong name. The mistake seems to have originated
in a letter of recommendation, May 3, 1822, from Montfort Stokes and William R.
King to the President (NA, SD, Applications).
* See post, p. 647.



592 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
JUDGE SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE 7th Jan. 1823
To THE HON. JoHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State,
SIR, In a letter received from Col. Alexander Hamilton, U States
Attorney for East Florida, dated Washington the 10* Ult”,” it is
stated, that you remarked to him that no letters had been received
from me. I have the honour in consequence thereof to state, that
immediately after my arrival at this place in September last, I re-
ported the fact by letter addressed to you,” communicating at the
same the impracticability of opening my Court before the January
term, in this letter I acknowledged the receipt at New Haven (Con)
of your letter of the 25* July.” Subsequently on the 14* October—I
stated the reception from the hands of Col Hamilton of several volumes
of the Laws of the United States with documents &c"—in a damaged
state which had been addressed to me, & taken charge of by him
from the Post Office, that they might be dried & preserved from
intire ruin. These I should again particularize in this letter, but I
cannot number and name them as they are at my office, & I am by ill
health confined to my chamber. *-
I short time since, on the 10* Ulto, while confined by sickness your
letters of the 6* Nov 19–& of the 24” of October * together with the
additional Census of Alabama & the 7” Volume of Wheaton's Reports
came to hand. & the receipt of these I have now the honour for the
first time to acknowledge.
I am Sir With the greatest respect Your Mo. Ob. Servt.
JOS. L. SMITH.
|Addressed] Hon. John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
[Postmarked] St. Augustine 7 Jany Free
t-
WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON TO THE SECRETARY
OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
BALTIMORE 7” Jan’ 1823
SIR. In compliance with the request of Mr Maury's letter of the
3” Inst,” received last night, I do myself the honor to Report to you,
on the case of Antelme Gay, as follows
* Not found.
* Not found. See ante, p. 554.
* Not found.
* Not found.
10 Not found.
11 Not found.
1: NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xx), soliciting information relative to the services of
A. Gay and his claim for pay, and referring to Gay's letter (not found).



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 593
On the 24 day of October 1821, I appointed Mr Gay & Mr Bird
Clerks to the Commission of J. R. Bell, J. G. Forbes & Edmund Law
Esq” to demand and take into their possession the public Documents
& Archives witheld by the Spanish Escribano & Governor of East
Florida—He (Gay) attended first at the Escribano's which was about
4. O'clock in the afternoon & also at the Governor's which took him
a walk of about 400 yards & about two or three hours attention, for
the papers were taken into possession, pretty much in bulk & very
little clerkship done about them—The next day early in the morning,
I superceded Mess" Gay & Bird by appointing, three Secretaries
Mess" Bethune, Lynch & Reynolds—So that for his Clerkship, Mr
Gay ought not to be entitled to more than half a day's pay, say $2—
His Stationary account, was to the best of my memory $13.50—
perhaps one dollar more or less—But to cover two or three small
charges, brought by other persons for removing the Archives &c. I
put down, on some paper, sent to the Department of State, to the
best of my recollection “Stationary $20–
Next, as to Mr Gay's Secretaryship—on or about the 12* day of
October, Mr Bethune, one of the Secretaries having determined to
leave Sº Augustine & return to Amelia Island where he lived, I sup-
plied his place by appointing Mr Gay—So that from the taking pos-
session of the Archives say from the 3" day of October to the 12*—
of the same month, Mr Bethune acted as Secretary—Mr Gay from
that last date to the close of the Commission, on the 5* day of Novem-
ber—
I have to rely for the aforegoing Report entirely on my memory
having neither papers nor Memoranda on the subject: But I repose
with much confidence in this statement—Whence it results that Mr
Gay, stood on the same ground as Mr Bird one of the Clerks (since
dead) and Mr Bethune one of the Secretaries—And may be entitled
according to my recollection to be paid the following items—
1” half a day's clerkship say . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 2.00
2* Stationary say . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.50
3” Secretaryship 22—days at $5.00 per dy being from the
12 of Octr to the 5. of Novr— . . . . . . . . . . 110.00
$125.50
I found Mr Gay in Florida—He is a Frenchman, a merchant, of
good sound talents & I think went to Florida about the time of the
Apollo's business on the St Mary's.
He had become under the Spanish Government, the holder of at
least ten or twelve pretty choice tracts of land amounting to upwards
of ten thousand acres—He spoke the English, French & Spanish
languages well—I appointed him an Alderman, afterwards Clerk &
Secretary as above, & lastly Public translator; the three former rather
as places of confidence & trust, than as matters of profit—He had
301867–57–39



594 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
become a Spanish Subject, but was naturalized an American Citizen
under Gen' Jackson's 3" Ordinance.—
Mr Gay, in his letter, seems to me, taking all things into consid-
eration, to make more fuss about his services & his small stationary
account than was necessary—All the papers & claims were instantly
forwarded to the proper Department by the late Secretary & Acting
Governor, who thinks Mr Gay, unjust, in impugning his Conduct in
this particular, in the slightest manner—
If any further explanations be necessary I am willing & ready to
give them at any time *—with distinguished consideration &c
- W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
THE Honble MR ADAMS. Secy of State.
[Endorsed] Worthington W. G. D 7 Jany 1823 Rº 9th
-
JOSEPH M. WHITE TO STEPHEN PLEASONTON
[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U. S. Attys. and Clks. (Fla.):ALS)
PENSACOLA Jan 8” '23
SIR I had the honor to be appointed District attorney pro tempore,
by the court in place of Mº Harrison dec'd “among the official docu-
ments delivered to me by his executor, I find your circular, & a
requisition to report to you accordingly.
In conformity with that requisition I have to state that there has
been no Term of the District Court holden since the organization of
the Territorial government, until the present. there is now but one
suit in which the U States is a party & that is in a case in which seven-
teen persons are indicted as pirates a part of whom will be tried at
this Term *—
Some time since I drew a Bill upon M* Crawford for my Salary as
Secretary to the Commissioners for the decision of land claims at this
place an office I was prevailed on to accept contrary to my wishes, to
serve the government. that Bill has been protested, for what cause
I have not been favored. I have employed two assistants & have
actually paid them $500 the Fees for recording only amount to $400—&
my salary independent of recording the claimants papers is $1250 the
Department having protested by Bill for the first quarter of that sum,
I have not only lost six months labor in the most laborious & difficult
office in this Territory but have actually paid money for the U States
I understand I should have drawn upon the Treasurer & not the
18 See post, pp. 646, 667.
14 Harrison died early in September, 1822 (ante, p. 531).
* A full account of this episode is contained in a letter of Judge Brackenridge
(to whom is not stated), June 1, 1823 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.), in which he reported
that the officers and crew of the schooner Carmen were held not guilty by the jury.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 595
Secretary I do not know the Treasurers name, I heard it was M*
Tucker.” I will thank you to write me the cause of the protest I
forwarded to the Treasurer & to M*Adams a Certificate of my appoint-
ment—it may not be a great deal of trouble at the department to
condemn Bills for informality, but the Department should not be
converted into the scrupulous formality of a Merchants shop & put
officers at the distance of a 1000 miles to such expence mortification
& trouble
I am &c. &c
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] S. Pleasanton Agent of the Treasury Washington City
[Postmarked] Pensacola Jan 10 25
[Endorsed] Pensacola Jan’ 8. 1823, Jos. M. White Dist. Atty pro.
tem, relating to Salary as Secret” to the Comm” for the decision
of land claims, &c, Ans" Feb’ 5. 1823.”—
JAMES G. FORBES TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
NEW YORK 8th January 1823
SIR Having at length returned from Florida I beg leave to remind
you of the accounts which I took an opportunity of forwarding to
you from thence for various services to the public performed there
since the Session with the vouchers in support, I now enclose in addi-
tion to those a Certificate from the Clerk of the Council of my acting
as Mayor for 14 Months, a period of arduous and unpleasant duty, as
most of the public functionaries had deemed it prudent to leave the
City during the prevalence of an Epidemic bearing exclusively hard
upon the most valuable part of the population (the Citizens of the
U. S.
Confiding upon the Known justice of the President I beg you will
have the accounts adjusted and state to the Honble Secretary of
State that my health and family affairs prevent me from presenting
myself at this moment at Washington but that I will forward any
documents in my possession which he may require
I am very respectfully Sir Your most obed. Servant
J. G* FORBES
FONTAINE MAURY Esq Agent for Florida affairs
|Endorsed) James G. Forbes New York 8 Jany 1823
* Thomas Tudor Tucker, Treasurer of the United States, 1810–1828.
* To the effect that the draft had not been paid because of the want of an
appropriation, which had since been provided and the draft for the second quarter
paid, as would others on presentation of accounts to the Secretary of State (NA,
JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. of Debts and Suits, Bk. 7). See post, p. 630.



596 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Enclosures: AD]
Account of James G. Forbes
1822 The United States To James G. Forbes—D"
For performing a Journey to Black Creek and other
parts of Sº John's River to detect some Cutters
of wood on the lands of the U.S. by order of Gov-
ernor Worthington 6 days travelling $50. —
Attendance as Marshal on the Supreme Court—the
Governor presiding for 4 days (3) $5 . . . . . $20.—
Attendance of Crier of Court . . . . . . . . . 8.
Stationary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.—
29. —
One Register furnished the Clerk of Dist C* . . . $4.50
For S. Walker Crier 3 days @ $2 . . . . . . . . 6. —
D° John Lowe Bailiff 3 (a) $2 . . . . . . . . . 6.—
Marshal's services 3 days (3) $5 . . . . . . . . 15.-
Summoning Jury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.—
35.50
Postage of a Packet & other official letters . . . . . . . . 7.—
Salary as Marshal of the two Floridas from 9th Oct. 21 to
9 May 1822. 7 months 200
My services as Mayor 14 months 4 days being from 21 August
21 to 25th Oct 1822 * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Attendance with Mr Law & Cap" Bell in receiving Archives &
Documents 28 days—under an order from Govr Worth-
ington " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Account of James G. Forbes
The United States To J. G. Forbes D*
To services as Mayor of Sº Augustine from the 21* August 1821 to
23* October 1822 (still serving) 14 months & 4 days at $400 p
annum - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $470.44.
1° Interlining this item is the following pencilled notation: “from the 27th
August 1821 to 25 Feby 1822 inclusively 43 days actual service, at 5 dolls p
diem 215”
1° Under this item are the following pencilled notations: “3 Dolls per diem . .
The decision of [blank] & The additional allowance which Mr forbes claims for
his services as Mayor from 25th Febv 1822 to 25 October in same year is suspended
for a sufficient voucher”



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 597
[Enclosures: ADS]
Certificate of John Du Bose
Sº AUGUSTINE E Florida October 25, 1822.
I do hereby Certify that Col J. G. Forbes, has acted as Mayor of
this City of Sº Augustine from the 21 day of August 1821. to the
Present date—
Given under My Hand & Seal in the City of Sº Augustine, on this 25
October 1822–
JN° DU BOSE Clerk of the Council of Sº Augustine—.
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY
OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 239:LS)
PENSACOLA, January 9° 1823
SIR, About the first of Decº Capt. Morris "arrived at this place from
St. Marks, with E. P. Doyle, as a prisoner, who had been arrested on
the Apalatchicola, in obedience to an order of Gov. Duval, and directed
to be brought to Pensacola for trial. Upon his being arraigned before
the District Judge, he was discharged. The expences incured by Capt.
Morris in this transaction, have been paid by me, agreeably to the
Account he presented, which, together with his receipt, are herewith
enclosed.
On the 22° Decº the Seminole Chiefs, Blunt and Tuskiharjo, with
eight warriors, and the Interpreter Stephen Richards, reached this
place. These chiefs had attended at St. Marks on the 20° Novem-
ber;” but believing that no treaty would be held, returned home,
before the arrival of Major Wright with the talk & provissions. The
object of their visit here, was to learn the causes which had produced a
failure of the contemplated negotiation, as well as to be informed
what measures the Government intended to adopt in [MS. torn] this
subject. They manifested much solicitude in relation to a Treaty;
but upon explaining to them the talk sent to St. Marks, & assuring
them that the government would attend to their wishes, they de-
parted fully satisfied ?–
In your letter of 28° Augt.” you inform Governor Duval, that you
had directed five Hundred dollars to be remitted to him, to pay
* See DuVal to the Secretary of War, Feb. 14, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.)
introducing Capt. George N. Morris, late commandant at St. Marks, and stating
that Morris could supply information about that section of the territory. DuVal
further commented that Morris had concerned himself with the conciliation of the
Indians and believed him entitled to compensation.
* See ante, p. 547, and post, p. 626.
* See post, p. 601.
* Ante, p. 518.



598 T E R R I TOR I. A L PA P E R S
Stephen Richards for his past services as Interpreter; after which, a
surplus would remain, to be appropriated to other purposes. Of this
sum I have not recieved any advices, and have presumed it never was
forwarded. Richards being a poor man in want of money, and having
advanced the funds necessary to defray the expences of himself and
the Indians in coming to Pensacola, I felt myself authorized under the
authority of your letter, to pay him three hundred dollars, in part
satisfaction for his services, and to appropriate the ballance to the
liquidation of Capt Morris's accounts and the expences of the Indians
and Interpreter whilst at this place and returning home. Alltogether,
these payments have not exceeded the five hundred dollars which it is
to be supposed, were intended to be applied to these objects—
Being entirely without money belonging to the Indian department,
at the time these accounts were presented, they were met by arrange-
ments which I hope will meet your approbation. The accounts of
Capt Morris were paid out of other public funds in my hands, and for
the purpose of replacing this amount, and covering the sums paid
Richards for his services, and the expences incident to the visit of the
Indians and their return home, I was under the necessity of drawing
a draft on your Department, in favor of F. H. Nesbit & Co. for four
hundred and eighty dollars and Eighty eight cents. It appeared to
me, that Justice and good policy required that these accounts should
be paid, and to accomplish this object, no other measure suggested
itself as more advisable than the one which I have adopted. The
receipts of Sebastian Barrios and Stephen Richards are forwarded
with this communication—
Colo. Humphreys the Indian agent, arrived and reported himself
on the 24” Ultimo. Agreeable to instructions,” he has made out his
Estimates for the first quarter in advance, from the first of January,
and which form the basis of those inclosed.” At present, no place has
suggested itself as so eligible for his location, as St. Marks, He will
shortly remove to that post, where he will be more immediately in the
neigborhood of the Florida Indians. It is not to be expected, however,
that he can accomplish much, until he receives funds, which will en-
able him to make suitable presents to their head men and Warriors”—
With the highest respect I have the honor to be Yr. Mo. Obt. Sert.
GEO. WALTON Secretary &c. &c.—
HoN* J. C. CALHOUN, Secy of War
[Endorsed] Walton. G. &c Pensacola, 9 Jany, 1823. relative to
Capt" Morris' account; to Seminole Chiefs; to Richard's account; to a
draft drawn by him, &c, &c. Estimate for 1* quarter 1823 enclosed.”
*See ante, p. 532.
26 See!post, p. 607.
* Answered post, p. 654.
* Present.



FL, OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 599
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA January 10* 1823
SIR. By this mail, I have forwarded to your Department, 146
printed pages of the laws of the Legislative Council, in obedience to
the 5* Section of the Act of Congress establishing a Territorial Gov-
ernment in Florida.” Agreeably to contract with the printer, the
whole was to be completed on the 10* Instant; but in consequence of
cold weather and other unforeseen occurrences which have impeded
the progress of the work, it will be out of my power to transmit the
ballance until the next mail.” You will find, the mechanical part of
the business, has been neatly executed; and it is to be hoped, that all
the Acts may arrive in time to be laid before the Congress of the
United States. -
I am, with the highest consideration, Yr. Mo. Obt. Sert.
GEO. WALTON Secretary &c.—
Honble JOHN Q. ADAMS, Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Walton George Pensacola 10 Jan’ 1823 Rec" 1 Feby
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
BARDS Town Jany 13* 1823
JOHN Q ADAMS Secretary of State
I recwº your favour of the 22” of November last only day before
yesterday *—I was from home arraging the business that brought me
to Kentucky - -
I had some weeks since written to you that about this time I should
return to Florida, and in a few days I shall be on the road I was ap-
prised of the dissatisfaction before I had the honour of receivg your
letter that has been excited in East Florida—It springs only from a
few men who have been disappointed—The President, shall soon find
that nothing like serious disquiet—really prevades East. Florida The
enemies of the administration will I know use any occasion however
trivial to excite the Public mind against it, I will endeavour to prevent
in future any complaint, so far as I am concerned—The wish of the
President for my return shall be promptly executed
I am with high respect & esteem your obt. Serv"
Wm P. DUVAL
* Ante, p. 391. -
* Walton transmitted the remainder of the laws on Jan. 17, 1823 (NA, SD, Fla.
Terr. Papers, XI).
* Ante, p. 563.



600 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PER S
|Addressed] Hon” John Q Adams Secretary of State Washington
City—[Postmarked] Bardstown Ky Jany 20 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Wºm P. Bards Town 13 Jany 1823 Recº 4 Feby
intimates his immediate return to Florida
ARTHUR W. THORNTON TO THE QUARTERMASTER
GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Recd.:ALS)
CAMP HOPE—near Pensacola 16* January 1823
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the Receipt, by the last mail,
of your order of the 6* Ult” relative to the public buildings in Pensa-
cola, with reference to your order of 19° July last,” and directing me
to report what disposition has, in conformity with that order, been
made of them: in answer to which, I have the honor to report as fol-
lows.
For the disposition made of the Government House in July last, and
untill the removal of the Troops from Pensacola, I beg leave to refer
you to my communications of the 4** and 18” August last,” the latter
in answer to your order of 19° July previous. Since the removal of
the Troops, and as soon as required by, Col: Walton Secretary & Act"
Governor of the Territory of Florida, on the 1* December past, I
delivered the Government House to him.
The Prison, has always since the possession of the Territory by the
United States been at the disposal of and occupied for its necessary
purposes by the Civil Authorities, and is now in their possession.
There is no public building in Pensacola known as the Custom
House which can be claimed by the Civil Department: The Officers
of the Customs have pretended a claim to one of the Block Houses
which is said to have been occupied as a Custom House during the
existence of the Spanish Authorities here. This Block House has, by
the order of Colonel Clinch commanding been delivered to the Custom
House Officer here for the temporary accomodation of his Department,
and is held subject to the orders of, the War Department, or the
Commanding Officer.
One other of the Block Houses has also, by the order of Colonel
Clinch, been delivered to, the Mayor of the City, for such purposes of
his Office as he may apporepriate it; and is also to be returned, in like
order as received, to the orders of, the War Department, or of the
Commanding Officer.
* Ante, p. 575.
** Ante, p. 493.
*NA (WD, QMG Lets. Recd.), a register item. The letter is missing. In it,
Thornton forwards correspondence between DuVal and Clinch, and from Clinch
to himself directing the hire of a house for the Executive Council.
* See ante, p. 493, n.



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 601
The other two Block Houses which were occupied by the Troops
as quarters, I now occupy as Store Houses: and the three other Block
Houses on the Skirts of the town remain unoccupied.
The Hospital, has lately been taken possession of by the Agent of a
Citizen who sets up a claim to it under a British grant: I have taken
the necessary measures to eject him; which will be executed in the
course of a few days.
I have the honor to be, Sir, With high Respect Your Obt: Servt:
A. W. THORNTON L*A* A. Q. M.
BRIG GENERAL THOMAS S. JESUP Quarter Master General U. S.
Army
[Endorsed) Lieu" A. W. Thornton Pensacola Jany 16. 1823 Feby 12*
1823.
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO GAD HUMPHREYS 35
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 229:LS)
PENSACOLA, 21* January 1823.
COL. GAD. HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent.
SIR. In a letter from the War Department, dated on the 19* of
August last, the Governor of this Territory was, advised that you had
been directed to repair to Florida, and report yourself to him for such
instructions as he might deem necessary to insure a just and faithful
discharge of the various duties which will arise in your intercourse
with the Indians.” In the absence of the Governor, who is, ex officio.
Superintendent of Indian Affairs, the performance of this duty has
devolved upon me, which I shall now proceed to discharge as far as I
am enabled from the information in my possession. I regret, on this
occasion, the absence of the Governor, whose opportunities, for
private conference with the Secretary of War upon the subject, and
whose experience in Indian Affairs whilst here, would have enabled
him to supply any deficiencies which may well be supposed to arise,
in consequence of my information having been gleaned from cor-
respondence which remains in my office, and, one or two conversations
with Indian Chiefs.-I have every confidence, however, that these
deficiencies will be supplied by a sound discretion on your part, and
that you will, in all cases, exercise it to the intire satisfaction of the
superintendent, and of the Government.—
Until Congress, by treaty or otherwise, shall have settled the future
location of the Florida Indians, it is impracticable to designate any
* Enclosed by Walton to the Sec. of War, Jan. 31, 1823 (post, p. 606).
* Ante, p. 509.



602 T E R RI TOR I.A. L. PA P E R S
place for your permanent residence.” For the present, considering
the mutual convenience of the Indians and Agent, it is believed that
St. Marks combines the most advantages. You will, therefore, as
soon as convenient, repair to that post; and when you shall have
become settled, and Sufficiently acquainted with the Indians, their
views and wishes, you will, from time to time, report to the super-
intendent every thing you may conceive interesting in regard to
those tribes. In discharging this branch of your duty, you are desired
to communicate your opinions as to the best means of introducing
amongst the Indians, the habits and employments of civilized life and
of instructing them in the improved processes of Agriculture, which
have been adopted by our own countrymen. You are also required to
use your best exertions, within the pale of your authority, to prevent
animosity and dissention amongst themselves, and to suppress appre-
hensions of severity or injustice from our Government, and of violence
from the Creek Indians. By these means you may be very instru-
mental in preserving peace, and a spirit of conciliation between them
and the United States, and afford to the Government suggestions
important to the welfare of those tribes, and to the cause of humanity.
It will be necessary, in your intercource with the Indians, to employ
one or more Interpreters, who will reside at such place, or places as you
shall designate, and recieve such compensation as you may contract to
give, not exceeding one dollar per day. In making a selection, it is
particularly recommended, that the individual who is to perform this
duty, shall be of good moral character, and otherwise entitled to the
most implicit confidence. Until this is satisfactorily ascertained, it
would not, it is concieved, be advisable to make the appointment for
any definite time. As some dificulties have arisen between Mº
Richards, the present Interpreter, and E. P. Doyle, it will be your
duty to make yourself acquainted with the facts in relation to it;
and if, at any time, you shall be satisfied that Mº Richards is not
qualified for his station, upon application, to the Superintendant
another will be appointed. With regard to Mº Doyle, should you
discover that his deportment is such as will authorize you to remove
from the nation in which he resides, you will do so as promptly as
possible— - -
Capt. Pelham, late of the army of the United States, has been
appointed Sub-Agent,” and is subject to your controul. He is
required to make his reports and communications thro' you to the
Superintendant, unless when attended with inconvenience or delay;
* For report of the House Committee on Indian Affairs relative to the Florida
Indians, see H. Rept. 97, 17 Cong., 2 sess.; A. S. P., Indian Affairs, II, 408-410.
A letter of Del. Hernandez to the Chairman of the Committee, Feb. 19, 1823,
advocating the removal of the Indians from the territory, is printed ibid., p. 410.
* Ante, p. 452.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 603
and will be paid by you quarterly or by the Superintendant if more
convenient. Capt. Pelham is understood to be absent, at present, by
permission of the Secretary of War, in consequence of bad health.”—
When remittances are recieved, funds will be placed in your hands,
to be appropriated in paying the Sub Agent, for presents to the Indians,
and for contingencies, At the close of each quarter, it is made your
duty to render to the Superintendant your account with vouchers for
all disbursements, which must be accompanied by a general abstract
of disbursements within the quarter; detailing under distinct heads
the various objects of disbursements, as pay of subAgent, Interpreters,
presents, rations, &c, &c, so as to leave as few as possible to be em-
braced under the head of contingencies. You will also add a statement
shewing the names of all persons employed by you as Interpreters,
and in every other capacity, to gether with the amount of wages paid
them respectively.—
You will have observed from the tenor of the Act of Congress, and
the Instructions to the Superintendant submitted to your inspection,
that the most rigid economy is required in all disbursements, and the
strictest exactitude in rendering accounts. It is necessary that the
accounts of the Agent should be forwarded to the Superintendant at
an early period; particularly that of the quarter ending on the 30°
September to enable the latter to make out a statement of his accounts.
which are to be deposited in the post office on that day.-As Agent
you have authority to grant temporary licences to trade with the
Indians, which should be exercised with the greatest caution, in strict
conformity with the act of Congress, and with every possible care to
prevent fraud, or the introduction of ardent Spirits amongst them.
You will keep copies of all the licences, and regularly return them with
the Securities, to the Superintendant.—
In calling your attention to these particulars, with a refference to
the acts of Congress, which more minutely explain your several duties,
accompanied by the enclosed forms of an abstract of expenditures,
and a Quarterly Estimate, I believe I have furnished you with every
necessary instruction, at present in my power; but if any thing ma-
terial has been omitted any future application for further information
connected with this subject will be attended to promptly and with
pleasure.”—
I have the honor to be, Yr. Mo. obt Sert.
GEO WALTON Secretary &c. &c.—
[Endorsed] Col. Walton to Col. Humphreys -
* See the Secretary of War to Pelham, Apr. 12, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets.
Sent, Bk. E), acknowledging a letter of Apr. 8 (not found) and instructing Pelham
to return to St. Augustine from Philadelphia as soon as his health permits. See
similar letter to Pelham, June 13, 1823 (loc. cit.). See also post, p. 732.
* See post, pp. 626, 654.



604 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., H 267: ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 21* Jamy 1823
SIR I have the Honor to submit to you the enclosed Correspond-
ence, which has been transmitted to me with a request that it should
be laid before the Government.”—It is to be regreted Sir, that in a
Territory so recently obtained from a forign Nation, whose Inhabitants
are yet unacquainted with the System & laws of Our Government,
Should have had instances of of open Controvercy between its public
functionaries.—Permit me to observe, that in regard to the public
property which Lº Colonel Eustis claims on the part of the U.S., that
the City Council of Sº Augustine consider themselves, & very justly,
entitled to a Considerable portion of it, as of right belonging to that
City. A Memorial from that Council “ & a Resolution of Mine,”
relative to similar property in the City of Panzacola, have been referred
by the House of Rep" to the Committee on lands.-I have therefore
respectfully to request you will lay the enclosed papers before the
President, in order that instructions may be speedily given to Lº
Colonel Eustis “ to prevent his interference with the said property
untill the decission of Congress is had thereon.—
I have the Honor to be with much respect Your Most Ob. Serv"
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Sect” of State.—
[Endorsed] Hernandez, J. M. Washington, 21 Jany, 1823 relative to
the public property at S*Augustine, &c.
JOSEPH ANDERSON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc, Letters: ALS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT Comptroller's Office 24* January 1823.
SIR, Your account, in relation to the treaty with Spain, for pay-
ments made to the Commissioners, their Secretary, Clerk & messenger,
&c and for Contingent expenses of the territory of Florida, from 1"
July to 30° September 1822, has been adjusted at the Treasury; and
a balance of $10,646%oo found to be due from you to the United
States, which is to be accounted for on a future settlement. The
balance which you stated is. . . . . . . . . . . . . $5650.79
* These enclosures had been previously transmitted by Lt. Harvey Brown to
the Quartermaster General; see ante, p. 585.
** Ante, p. 570.
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 147.
* Hernandez was informed on Mar. 27 of instructions of that date to Eustis
to place under civil authority that part of the barracks necessary for a public
prison (NA, WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 605
To which add
Treasury warrant Nº. 2405, dated 4* Decº
1822, not issued in time to be credited
in your account. . . . . . . . . . . . $5,000.—
Deduct this sum, short paid Mº Tazewell for
his salary, from 10* March to 1 July
1822; brought to your credit in this settle-
ment, but not charged by you. . . . . 4.57 4995.43
as above $10,646.22
Respectfully
JOS ANDERSON Comptr.
FONTAINE MAURY, Esq. Agent for the Department of State
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury, Esq." Department of State. Comp-
troller’s Office
[Endorsed] Report of the Comptroller of the Treasury 24 Jany 1823
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DANIEL E. BURCH
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 4]
Jan v 27th 1823
CAP* D. E. BURCH Ass" Q' Mº Pensacola.
SIR, You will take measures to ascertain the best route for a road
from Pensacola to the Barrancas, and will submit to this office a de-
tailed report in relation, stating the nature of the Country, the num-
ber and description of bridges necessary to be erected, with an
estimate of the expense.”
I am sir. &"
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO CHRISTOPHER. RANKIN
[NA: HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:ALS)
- WASHINGTON CITY 30th Jam" 1823
SIR Under an impression, that I may not have made all the ex-
planations, which I ought, to convince you of the propriety of relieve-
ing the Inhabitants of the Territory which I have the Honor to repre-
sent; from the expence imposed upon them, in the exhibition of their
titles or proofs of property to the land Commissioners. I take the
liberty to lay the enclosed Letter to your perusial,” which, when con-
venient, please to return to me.—I am persuaded, Sir, that you will
not allow a few individuals, who are paid by the Government for
**Answered post, p. 653. See also post, p. 607.
* Not present and not found.



606 T E R RIT OR 1 A L PA PER'S
their services, to be benifited at the expence of the whole commu-
nity.—The people have made us the guardians of their rights & it is
our duty to protect them.—
I have the Honor to be Very respectfully Your Most Ob Serv"
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
HON CHRISTOPHER RANKIN
[Addressed] To the Honorable Christopher Rankin Chairman of
the Committee on Public Lands.—
[Endorsed] J M Hernandez
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 229:LS)
PENSACOLA Jam" 31. 1823.
SIR, I have the honor herewith to enclose a note which I addressed
to the Assistant Quarter-Master accompanied by his Estimate of the
probable expense of opening a road from Pensacola to St. Augustine
by the troops of the United States including their extra pay per day
together with his suggestions as to the most practicable route be-
tween those two places. Capt Burch appears to have a personal
knowledge of the Country only from Pensacola to the Suwanee and
estimates the whole distance to St. Augustine at 462 miles. From
information in my possession there is very little doubt but that this
calculation may be reduced by crossing the bay immediately at
Pensacola and pursuing a direct course so as to intersect the old
Spanish road not far from the Mikasuky towns. The only object in
taking the circuitous direction of Fort Crawford * is to avoid the
Bay and the swamp of its tributary streams; and this difficulty may
be obviated by adopting the measure above suggested. Should the
government, however determine to open the road I would respectfully
recommend that before it is commenced one or more suitable persons
who are well acquainted with the Country & its localities be selected
to make such an examination as may be necessary to obtain a correct
report relative to the most advisable route.
It is very desirable that the road should be opened and it ought to
be done with a care & economy calculated to render it a permanent
establishment. The union harmony and intercourse of East & West
Florida would be sensibly promoted by the accomplishment of such
an important undertaking; it would greatly contribute to the wealth
& population of the intervening territory and by the enhanced value
of the publick lands save to the government more than it will have
*7A Federal fort in Alabama not far above the Florida boundary on a tributary
of the Conecuh River. -



F L OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 607
expended. The calculation of the cost as represented by Capt Burch
is a liberal one and if opened in a direct route and upon the most
suitable ground I have no doubt that such a road as is contemplated
by the Quarter Master when finished will fall short of the expense as
stated in his estimate—
Col. Humphreys the Indian Agent embarked from Pensacola on
the 27* instant for St. Marks, Upon his reporting himself at this
place for instructions they were made out & presented to him as di-
rected by your several communications to the Governor of Florida.
In framing them I availed myself of the best information in my reach
& hope every thing was communicated to Col. Humphreys upon the
subject of his duties which was necessary as a guide in their execution.
A copy of them is enclosed “–
You will also receive herewith an account and receipt of Maj.
Thomas Wright of the army of the United States for services therein
specified.” Although I had no publick funds in my hands, I had no
hesitation in liquidating the account as the services had been faith-
fully rendered and the charge a moderate one. It would be accept-
able to be able to learn as early as convenient, how this sum will be
refunded *—
I have the honour to be Your obedt servant—
GEO WALTON Secretary &c. &c.—
HON J. C. CALHOUN Secretary at War.
[Endorsed] Walton. G. &c Pensacola, 31 Jany, 1823 relative to a
road from Pensacola to S*Augustine, &c, &c.
[Enclosure]
Acting Governor Walton to Daniel E. Burch
PENSACOLA Jamy 30” 1823.
SIR, Governour Duval in a letter addressed to the Secretary at
War on the 18* July last "suggested the propriety of employing the
United States troops in opening a road between Pensacola and St
Augustine. In reply to this communication M* Calhoun in a letter
bearing date the 19* day of August * acknowledges the importance
of the road and that the military force of Florida might be usefully
employed in such a work “but as it would be attended with consider-
able expense it cannot be done without the authority of Congress”
In a subsequent letter of the 28* August addressed to the Governour
of Florida “ the Secretary at War remarks “Since my answer to you
* Ante, p. 601. See also post, p. 626.
* Not present.
* Answered post, p. 654. See also post, p. 628.
*l Ante, p. 491.
* Ante, p. 508.
* Ante, p. 518.



608 T E R R IT OR I. A L PA PERS
of the 19* instant in relation to your proposition for opening a road
between Pensacola & St. Augustine. I have thought it probable that
the expenses of merely opening the road would not be great; and if
you will transmit to me an Estimate of the probable amount of the
Cost including the extra pay of the soldiers, (an Estimate of which you
may obtain from the Quarter Master) I will decide upon the subject
and apprise you of the decision”—
Until your arrival in this place within a few days past, no oppor-
tunity has been afforded for opening a correspondence with you on
this subject or for obtaining the estimate referred to in the letter of
the Secretary at War. Not being minutely advised myself in rela-
tion to the topography of the country through which it is contemplated
to open the road and having learned that you are acquainted with a
considerable part of it from personal observation you will confer a
favour by communicating to me at as early a period as practicable
all the information you possess in relation to this important under-
taking I should be glad to procure from you also such an Estimate as
is mentioned in the letter of the Secretary at War together with a
particular description of the Country through which the best &
most practicable route can be obtained
I have the honour to Your Mo obedt Servant
(Signed) GEO. WALTON Secy &
Acting Governor of the Territory of Florida
CAPT DANIEL E. BURCH Asst Q' Master.
[Enclosure: ADS)
Estimate for Opening Road
[January 30, 1823.)
Estimate of the probable expense of opening a Road from Pensacola
to St. Augustine, by the labor of the Troops.—
For their extra 15 Cents per day . . . . . . . . . . . $6930.-
&c. do. Gill of whiskey . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924.—
“ the expense of the necessary teams to accompany the
troops . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4000.-
“ the transportation of provisions and other supplies to
different points of deposit on the Route . . . . . 7000.-
Amount, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $18854.—
From Pensacola via Fort Crawford to the Choctawhatchie there is
a Waggon Road, a distance of 172 miles, requiring only the repair of
the Causeways & two or three small bridges;-from thence the Road
should be opened direct to the Achesee Bluffs on the appalachicola,
thence until it intersects the old Spanish Road (now grown up,) near



FLORIDA. T. E. R. R. I TOR Y 609
the Mickasukee Towns, leaving St. Marks about 20 miles to the South,
and continuing on it to St. Augustine, crossing the St. Johns at Fort
Picolata, from whence there is a Road to St. Augustine. It is about
290 miles from the Choctawhatchie to St. Augustine, making the
whole Route 462 Miles, in which distance there would be about 240
miles of new road to open, provided this Route is approved; & I will
here take occasion to remark that it is the nearest practicable Route;—
From this place to the Suwannee I have a personal knowledge of it.
In making this estimate I have calculated that the Road will be
opened only wide enough for a waggon to pass with ease, & experience
proves that such Roads, being shady, are most proper for a Southern
climate.—The provisions for the troops ought to be transported by
Water & placed in deposit at Fort Crawford, at the crossings of the
Yellow Water, Pea River, Choctawhatchie, and Appalachicola, at
Fort St. Marks & at the crossings of the Suwannee & the St. Johns.—
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
PENSACOLA W. F. January 30° 1823.
801867—57—40



É
ABSTRACT OF PETIT JURORS, JANUARY TERM, 1823
[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 47,436 (1823):DS]
[January, 1823]
Abstract of Compensations to Grand and Petit Jurors, for their attendance at a United States Superior Court held at Pensacola,
for the District of West Florida, and for their travel to and from the said Court, at the January Term 1823.”
For Attendance. For Travel
Total Amount. - - -
Original Signatures of
Names. P.” Num- Amount. |Num- Amount. j.". paid
ber of - -|ber of - each.
Days. Dollars. Cents. Miles Dollars. Cents. Dollars. Cents.
Petit Grahd Jurors.
1 Thomas Beeler Pensacola 10 [1]2 50 None 12 50 Thomas Beeler
2 Rowland Clapp Do 4 5 5 Rowland Clapp
3 Hezekiah Myres 2 2 50 2 50 Hezkiah Mires
4 John May 10 12 || 50 12 50 John May
5 Jason Whitney 10 12 || 50 12 50 Jason Whitney
6 Jamas Pendleton 1 1 25 1 || 25 James Pendleton
7 William A. Beall 6 7 50 7 50 William Bell
8 Whitfield Champlain 8 10 | 10 Whitfield Champlin
9 Sebastian Barrios 9 11 25 11 25 Sebastian Barrios
10 David Avery 8 10 10 David Avery
11 Peter Mickle 4 5 5 peter mickel
12 Robert Breen 6 7 || 50 7 50 Rob" Breen
13 James B. Storr 10 12 || 50 12 || 50 James B. Storr
14 Sebastian Caro 8 10 - 10 Sebastian Caro
15 Henry Bicker | 10 12 50 - 12 50 Henry Bicker



Petit Jurors
Jose Maura
William Daugherty
John Lauderback
Isaac Underwood
Henry Ahrens
Littlebury Mason
Abner Jones
James Mallet
Francisco Morieo
James Sykes
Octaveous Mitchell
Thomas B. Bell
Abram Cosby
Alexander Myres
Joseph Bays
Antonio P. Phillibert
Henry Riley
Charles Evans
W. H. Hunt
George C Todd
Alex" Mitthertogue
Thomas Anderson
Edmund Doyle
Joseph Ward
John White
John McGregor
Matthew Hanna
See footnote at end of table.
1
1
:
1
:
1
1
:
1
1
1
:
Jose Maura
William Dougherty
Joseph Louderback
Isac underwod
Henry Ahrens
Littlebury Mason
Abnt Jones
James Mallett
Franco Moreno
James Sakes
Octaveous Mitchal
Thomas B Bell
Abram Crosby
Alexander Myres
Joseph Bays
A P Philibert
Henry Riley
Charles Evens
W. Hasell Hunt
G. C. Tod Pr. J. B. Foster
Alex" Mitthertogue
Thomas Anderson
Matthew Hannah for
Edmund Doyle
Joseph Ward
John White
John McGregor
Matthew Hannah



É
For Attendance. For Travel
Total Amount - - -
- Original Signatures of
Names. *..." Num-| Amount. |Num- Amount. Jurors for Aºunt paid
ber of ber of eacn.
*|Dollars. Cents. |*|Dollars. Cents. Dollars. Cents.
Petit Jurors
41 Siriaes Lopez 1 1 25 1 25 Ciriaco Lopez
42 Charles C. Keyser 3 3 || 75 3 || 75 Chaº C Keyser
43 John Garnier 1. 1 || 25 1 25 John Garnier
his
44 Doming Terne 4 5 5 Domingo x Terne
mark
45 Lewis Gagnet 1 1 25 1 || 25 Louis Gagnet
46 Eugene Lavolette 1 1 25 1 || 25 Eugenio Lovatte
47 Francis Bougit 1 1 25 1 || 25 F Bouguie
48 Pierre Senac 1 1 || 25 1 25 Pedro Senac
49 Jacob Rickets 2 2 || 50 2 || 50 Jacob Ricketts
50 Charles Barron 2 2 50 2 || 50 Carlos Baron
51 Pablo Palmes 1 1 25 1 || 25 Pablo Palmés
52 Francisco Lopez 1 1 || 25 1 || 25 Franco Slopis
53 Ambrose Caro 1 1 || 25 1 || 25 Ambrosio A. Caro
54 N. H. Allen 3 3 75 3 || 75 N. H. Allen
55 Isaac Woodard 3 3 || 75 3 || 75 Isaac underwod
56 Daniel Watson 3 3 || 75 3 || 75 Daniel Watson
Dollars. 265



É
I do hereby certify, That the Jurors named in the foregoing abstract were duly summoned, and for their attendance and mileage,
at this Term, are legally entitled to the compensation affixed to their names respectively.
[May Term Grand Jurors] John Innerarity, Christopher Y. Fonda, Pablo Palmés, Eugenio Lavalle, Juan Brosnahan, F. H.
Nisbet, Henry Ahrens, Henry Nichelet, Joseph Noriega, Joseph C. Keyser, Joseph Bonifay, Matthew Hannah, Desiderio Quina,
Timothy Twitchell, Peter Alber, J Bouquie, Nathan Shackleford, William Barnett, Colin McCrea, [Petit Jurors] Sebastian Barrios,
Jason Whitney, Francisco Slopis [Lopez?], John Campbell, William Mims, Sebastian Caro, John May, Robert Breen, Samuel Patterson,
Jose Maura, Charles Gallaher, James Finlay, Garick Bell, Henry Bicker, Celestino Gonzales, Benito F. Caro, Francisco Colein, Domingo
Terne [his mark], Charles G. Foster, Francisco Moreno, E. P. Steele, Whitfield Champlin, Joseph Sierra, John Edgley, A. Austin,
Maturen Simon, Thomas S. Paul, Charles Beeler, Ambrosio A. Caro, Amil Murley, Daniel Watson, John B. Foster, Christopher Y.
Fonda, Zacheriah Bennett, William Murley, Guillermo McVoy, Antoine Collins, Hezkieh Miers, Thomas Beiler, Joseph Piper,
Edward Fitzsimons, Jerimiah Austin, Abram Crosby, Isaac Underwood, James Carr, George C. Todd, Francisco deP Palmés, Peter
Michael, David Every, James B. Starr, Charles C. Keyser, and William A. Bell.
[Extra Term September Grand Jurors] Noah H. Allen, Christopher Y. Fonda, Henry Michelet, George W. Barkley, Manuel del
Barco, William Wyatt, Ciriaco Lopez, Clark Jackson, Henry Grand-Pré, Julian Lavallé, Francisco desteſ?] Palmés, Pedro Senac,
Nicolas S. Parmantier, Nathan Shackelford, Roland Clapp, Charles G. Foster, Robert Windham, [Petit Jurors] John Edgley, Antoine
Collins, Whitfield Champlin, Francisco Slopis, John Campbell, Celestino Gonzalez, Robert Breen, Francisco Moreno, Charles Gallaher,
James Carr, Williams Mims, Joseph Bays, Daniel Watson, Hezekiah Myers, Jason Whitney, John W. Levinus, Gamaliel Bell, Charles
Evans, James Sykes, Henry Bicker, Benjamin Ducker, John Jamison, James Cole, Levi Waters, John L. Bacon, Francisco Gomez,
F. Commings, Jose Sierra, Louis Gagmet, James Vilasecar, Ambrose A. Caro, John May, Richmond P. Hughes, William Dougherty,
Jose Bonifay, and Jourdan Petit.
District of West Florida's Stated by
January Term, 1823 ſ - William Sebree Marshal. W. Florida
Examined and allowed. John Miller Clerk.
H M Brackenridge Judge District. by W. Hasell Hunt D. C.
[Endorsed] No 1 Jurors Jany term 1823 265.00
* Jurors who attended the other terms of the court at Pensacola in 1823 were as follows:




[November Term Grand Jurors] Eugenio Lavalle, Samuel Patterson, William H. McCurdy, Clark Jackson, David Rowland,
John Mathews, A. P. Simpson, Robert Manning, Jephtha Gilbert, Richard Edens, Isaac Ginright, Peter Wilkerson, Joseph W. Hall,
John S. Moore, Elijah McCurdy, Guillermo McVoy, Henry Ahrens, John Jerrison, Francisco Moreno [Petit Jurors] Benjamin Nettles,
Whitfield Champlin, Jose Maura, Henry Harrell, Ambrose A. Caro, Reubin Wilson, John Morison, Malcom Morison, Abraham Pringle,
Alexander Smith, John Edgley, Richmond R. Hughes, Sebastian Barrios, Joseph Sierra, Levi Waters, John G. Barrow [his mark],
Young W. Folsom [his mark], John White, Guillermo McVoy, [Signature illegible; given in list as Francis Bouquit], Hezekiah Myers,
William Mims, Nicolas S. Parmantier, Joseph C. Keyser, John Campbell, Charles Evans, Furguson H. Nisbet, Andrew P. Simpson,
James Finlay, Pablo Palmés, Sebastian Caro, and Francisco Gomes.
Witnesses who attended this court [January Term] included Juan de la Rua, John Lee Williams, Samuel Fry, Thomas P. Rioboo,
Carlos L. Baron, Francisco Moreno, William Hasell Hunt, and others who were summoned but not found included Jose Viola, May
Ann Todd, R. S. Easter. [May Term] Henry Bicker, William P. J. Boyce, John Edgley, Salvader Amiera [his mark], John McGregor,
Charles Gallaher, Jeremiah Ingraham, Foster S. Chapman, Peter Micheal, Joseph Piper, Edward Fitzsimons, Robert Breen, John B.
Foster, Charles C. Keyser, James Rushton, John Levinus, Juan Brosnaham, John May, James Parsons, Whitfield Champlin, N. H.
Allen, James Sacks, Henry Michelet, Jose Tapiola, George R. A. Rickett, Robert Mitchell, William Davison, Benjamin Wyman,
Benjamin Harper, Joseph Poole, Thomas A. Skinner, Quilly Nixon, James B. Starr.
[Extra Term September] Foster S. Chapman, Jeremiah Ingraham, Septemius Mallett, John Miller, Pierre Marsan [Massan?],
James Cole, Levi Waters, Pierre Mouchons, John Quintero, F. Commings, James Vilasecar, Pedro Silva, Antoine Carrea [?], John
Mathews, William H. Bell, William Davison, Robert Mitchell, Clark Jackson, Salvador Remiera, Robert Breen, Benjamin Wyman.
Others listed on this abstract but not receipted for included Bloodgood, Cary Nicolas, Thomas P. Rioboo, Francisco Tuuad, Leonardo
Rivers, Francisco Bertrand, George R. A. Rickets, John McGregor, Henry Unducth.
[December Term] Young W. Folson, John G. Barrow [his mark), Jourdan Petit, Ambrose A. Caro, Robert W. Smith, Peter Adams,
Jeremiah Ingraham, Daniel Watson, Whitfield Champlin, Levi Waters, James Vilase.co, Francis Porter, James Murray, Patrick
Carling, John Jerrison, Prospere Vandervalle, Samuel Fry, and listed but not receipted John Jamison.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 615
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JOEL YANCEY 55
[NA:HF, Orig. Reports, TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.:C 58]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Feb. 4 1823.
SIR: Your letter of the 30" ultimo, has been duly received,” and I
approve of the appointment of Samuel Ayres as an Inspector of the
Customs at Key West; it being understood, however, that he cannot
be entitled to receive any compensation until he has taken the oaths
of office, and entered on the duties at Key West.*
I am, &c
(Signed) W. H. CRAWFORD
JOEL YANCEY, Esq. Collector of Key West Norfolk, (Virg)
[Endorsed] No. 18. Feb. 4 1823 To Joel Yancey, Esq. Collector of
Key West. approval of the appointment of an Inspector.—
FONTAINE MAURY TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 10 Feby 1823
WILLIAM POPE DUVAL Governor of the Floridas
SIR By the desire of R. M. Johnson Esquire * I have enclosed
you my Check on the Branch of the United States Bank at this place
for $362.30—One hundred & seventy eight fifty Cents of which is for
the services of A. W. Hynes as Secretary to the Governor 119 days at
1% dollars per day, that being charged by and allowed to W*
Reynolds for similar services—The further sum of $183.80 is for the
Salary of Mr. Gaither whose statement was found incorrect in the
sum of 4.53.
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant.
FoNTAINE MAURY Ag"
* Yancey was nominated as collector at Key West Dec. 9 and confirmed Dec.
12, 1822 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 312).
* This and other documents from the same source relative to the collection of
customs at Key West are printed, H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess.
57 Not found.
* Answered Feb. 4, 1823 (op. cit.), stating that he had appointed Joseph
Dawley as deputy collector at Key West.
* See ante, p. 566.



616 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
- WASHINGTON CITY 10th Feby 1823
SIR I have the Honor to Annex hereto the names of such Gentle-
men, residents of the Territory which I have the honor to represent;
in whom, you can safely rely, as fit and worthy persons to fill the
Legislative Council of that territory, for the ensuing Session.—
$º. ds | of the late Council of Florida
Joseph Noriega ” Penzacola
William Barnett ” Ditto
John de la Rua " ” Ditto
Richard K Call ” Ditto
Gabriel Win Perpall ” Sº Augustine
Edward R. Gibson ” Ditto
William H. Simmons ” Ditto
Peter Mitchel ” uper S" Johns river
John Bellamy ” Sº Johns yy
Zephania Kingsley ” Sº Marys 22
Henry Yonge ” Apalachicola.
I also respectfully beg leave to add the names of other persons in
whom you can also rely.—Mº William Traves and Antonio Alvarez of
S” Augustine, Charles W* Bulow & James Darley of Mosquito,
Benjamin Chairs of S" Johns Philip P Fatio of Pablo near S" Johns,
Thomas Reynolds of Sº Marys & M" Farquhar Bethune of Amelia
Island Mr Elias Wallen of Sº Augustine is also an intelligent person"—
Should any of the above mentioned persons meet with your appro-
bation I am persuaded, Sir, that they will discharge the duties of that
high and important trust with Honor to themselves & with credit
and profit to the territory.—
I have the Honor to be with much respect Your Most Ob° Serv"
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
[Addressed] To the President of the United States
[Endorsed] 10. Feb” Hernandez Joseph M. Recommend George
Murray and others as qualified persons to fill the Legislative Council
in Florida. Mr Hernandez—
* See post, p. 629.
* Cf. post, p. 640.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 617
WATERS SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
CITY OF S: AUGUSTINE T. F. 11 Feby. 1823
SIR I am requested by the Corporation of this City to address you
on the subject of our debts—contracted by the former Council, during
the year 1821—These debts principally arose during the prevelence
of the Yellow Fever in the summer of that year, & were unavoidable,
in consequence of the distressing malady that raged with such violence
and mortality: and its victims were strangers; emigrants from the
U. States: I believe there was not among its victims a solitary native
of Florida. Under the American Authorities that City Council were
organized; not one Cent of money was in the City Treasury, and no
means of raising any; many of the sick were without the necessaries
of life; The City Council were compelled to establish a Hospital,
provide Physicians, nurses &" &" Bury the Dead, and provide for the
suffering poor; taxes were levied, but the distresses of the inhabitants
were such that their collection was very properly suspended; &
finally on the 7” May 1822 Congress passed an act, prohibiting the
Collection of taxes by the Corporation of this City.” The pecuniary
distresses of this place are great: While this Territory was a Spanish
Province, the principle City expences were paid from the Royal
Treasury; and a number of our present inhabitants derived their
support from the same source: being in the employ of the Spanish
Government; that employ ceasing, those inhabitants tho' not a charge
to the City, are not in a situation to contribute towards the payment of
Corporation debts that arose from an excessive influx of the lower
class of Citizens from the United States. As I have above stated,
there was no money in the Treasury when this Territory was trans-
ferred to our government; The Corporate Authorities of this City
loaned to the Kings Treasurer $3.200.-previous to the Treaty of
1819–which has not, and I presume never will be repaid—
The amount of the Corporation debts above referred to are Two
thousand seven hundred and ninety five Dollars eleven Cents—And
the Corporation of this City indulge a hope that the President of the
United States will be pleased to authorise the above sum to be paid
out of monies appropriated by an act of Congress of 3" March 1821 *
for carrying into execution the Treaty between the United States and
Spain *
With due consideration & Respect I remain your obed" Serv"
Waters Smith Mayor of the City of St Augustine
To THE HON' J. Q. ADAMS Secty. of State
ºn 3 STAT. 685.
* Ante, p. 5.
* Answered post, p. 635.



618 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Addressed] The Hon" John Q. Adams Secty. of State Washington
City [Postmarked] Chals" SC Feb 21 Ship Free
|Endorsed] Smith Waters Sº Augustine 11 feby 1823 Recd 1 March.
a/cs of the Corporation of St Augustine.
JOHN GARNIER TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA, February 13* 1823.
SIR, on the 30° of Nov' last,” I had the honor of addressing the
Secretary of State, & M Barkley had the goodness to enclose my
letter to you—its object was to claim the compensation to which I
am entitled, as 1” associate Judge of the Court of Escambia, according
the precedents established by the decision of President, in favor of
Judge Shannon & M" Murray of East Florida—to this I am without
a reply, but attributing it to the pressure of business at the Seat of
Government at this moment, when at the same time I cannot apprehend
any difficulty respecting my claim, & urged besides by necessity, I have
taken the liberty of drawing on you at 10 days sight, in favor of Geo.
W. Barkley, for $520–. being the amount I conceive justly due me,
calculating on the Sum p day, allowed to Mess. Shannon & Murray—
this draft you will please to honor if authorised & it will be conferring
a particular favor, to urge the decision of the President, had it not
already been obtained.”
I have the honor to be very Respectfully—. Sir, Your most Obed"
Serv't
JN" GARNIER
FounTAIN MAURY Esq." Dep" of State.
FONTAINE MAURY TO JOHN GARNIER
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 14 Feby 1823
JoHN GARNIER Esquire Pensacola, W Florida
SIR Your letter to the Secretary of the 30 November " & M"
Barcleys * to me of the 6 Dec. * in relation to your account, for
services rendered by you as Judge of Escambia County Court, have
been duly received and would have been answered at an earlier date
but for the unsual pressure of business both upon the President and
* Ante, p. 573.
* Answered post, p. 642.
ºf Ante, p. 573.
* George W. Barkley.
* Ante, p. 574, under date of Dec. 1, 1822.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 619
the Secretary of State since the meeting of Congress—I am however
now directed to inform you, that it will be necessary for you to render
an account Specifying the number of days you were actually on duty
as Judge, and the sum you claim per day, which being accompanied
by the Certificate of the Governor on the best other testimony that
the circumstances of the case can admit of, will if found reasonable be
paid; and you will do well to leave room above your signature for a
receipt to be written by me upon my forwarding to you a check for
whatever may be allowed to you.
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE VICE PRESIDENT 70
[NA:SF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 17th Febv 1823
SIR Having understood, & with much regret, that a Bill which is
now before the House of Representatives, entitled “A Bill amending,
and supplementory to, the Act for ascertaining claims and titles to
lands in Florida, and to provide for the Survey and disposal of public
lands in Florida,” is likely to be rejected by the Senate. And know-
ing, Sir, how important it is both to the interest of the United States
& to the Territory which I have the Honor to represent, that it should
be adopted. I beg leave respectfully, to annex hereto, Copy of part
of a Letter which I have received from M'. Nathaniel A Ware, one of
the Commissioners appointed to settle land claims in that territory,
with a request, that you will lay it before the Senate, and which,
together with a Memorial from the Inhabitants of East Florida ad-
dressed to the Senate & House of Rep" "praying, Among other things,
for the Appointment of An additional Board of Commissioners to
settle their land Claims. I hope & trust, will prove sufficient to
convince the Senate of the propriety of allowing the appointment of
an additional Board of Commissioners, and to allow also the other
salutary provisions contained in that Bill, -the title of which is
herein quoted—
Copy.- PENZACOLA 27* December 1822.
SIR: I take the liberty to address you, as the Delegate from Flor-
ida—relative to the Board of Commissioners for deciding on Titles
to lands in Florida.-The Commissioners have done nothing as yet,
first on account of the sickness at this place—and since because we
cannot agree, at all, upon the principals that are to guide us in our
decisions: (there being but two of us, the third not having come on
yet) I feel bound to give the Treaty and act of Congress a liberal
* Daniel D. Tompkins.
7 Amte, p. 570.



620 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
construction—But, the other commissioner Strickly, for the fulfilment
of all the conditions and for great regularity in the grants, neither of
which have been much attended to by the Spanish Government.—
I will take us most of this year to close our business at Penzacola—I
think therefore that you aught to get an other Board appointed for
East Florida—It will cost no more than if the same board done it all—
and there will be no confusion in the Records—for two sets of Books
will have any how to be kept, one for each Florida—It is very import-
ant both to the United States and Florida, that those titles should be
settled with all speed—The recording can be easily done when the
Boards meet—so that wont delay them—I think it my duty to urge
you to have a new board appointed, knowing how slow and tedious
we get on, altho' it will shorten the period of my office.”—(Signed)
Nathaniel A Ware.—The underscoreing has been done by myself.-
I have also received an other Letter from Mr Joseph M. White,
Secretary to the Board of Commissioners, dated at Penzacola the
29* of Decº ulto.” in which, he invites my attention to the necessity
of appointing a Recorder & translater of Spanish Claims, at S*Augus-
tine at the present Session of Congress. He also adds, that the
Commissioners after the session at Penzacola, will proceed imme-
diately to S" Augustine, where, he says it will take at least six months
to collect records & translate a sufficient number for to proceed to
their adjudication.—Sir, it is now to late, to call the attention of
Congress, as suggested by M" White. The establishment of a new
Board is, in my estimation, the Course which aught to be adopted:
Whose Secretary, shall understand the Spanish language.—I may
not be rong in allowing my self further elusidations on this important
subject; & should I have over steped the bounds of proper limits, I
trust will easily be perceived & constitute an ample apology; for, they
alone, lead me to appear before the Honorable Body over which you
preside.—
The Spanish Government, kept East & West Florida under two
separate & distinct governments, in which much difference have
arisen from the system pursued by their respective Governors, as well
as in the fortuitous occurrences, which from time to time, were
experenced in both Provinces.—In the Judiciary they were govern"
alike, when the Laws of the Kingdome, prescribe the Course of the
Tribunals for the administration of justice.—But very different as
regards the jurisdiction of the rights of their respective governors.--
The power & priviledges which those Governors enjoyed, were also
distinct & often very different, emanating either from their Sovereign,
the Cap" General & Intendant of the Island of Cuba, or from the
great discretionary powers which the Government of Spain always
yielded to the governors of her ultra marine possessions.—So much
7. Not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 621
have those causes had their influence, that but few cases of either
Province would be a just criterion for the other.—
Spain like every other nation had its own peculiar system of gov-
ernment, extending to one portion of her dominions priviledges which
she refused to others; & some times, even contrary to the general
policy of her government: She gave to Floridas; & I believe Louisiana,
the priviledge of enjoying the Protestant Religion & allowed foregners,
who would settle in those Provinces, the rights of her own subjects,
from the moment the took the oath of fidelity, and this was only to
defend the Province when invaded & to be subject to the Laws of
the Realm.—
The Inhabitants were exempt from all system of taxation—not
even for the support of the Church—They were allowed a free school
for the education of their children, without distinction of person
except in sex. They paid a Duty of Six pºCent on foregn importa-
tions & exported the produce of the country free of duty.
All vacant Lands in the Spanish Colonys, were called the Kings
patrimony, and as the great Lord of the National Domain, previous
to the Adoption of the present Constitution of the Spanis Monarchy,
he disposed of them at his will & as he judged most beneficial to the
settlement of his Colonys, very often in reward of individual merit,
but, I know of no instance in which he disposed of them, of his own
accord, for a pecuniary consideration. His Vice Roys, Commanding
& Cap" Generals as well as his Governors, personated his Sover-
eignty, in their respective territorial jurisdictions; and some of them
have had the confidence, in many instances, to make them selves
His Magesty in person. endeed the people understood, that the acts
of their Governors were guaranteed to them & that they alone were
responsable to the King.— In East Florida about the Year 1792 a
Royal proclamation was published,” inviting forigners to settle in
that Province, making it obligatory in the Governors to grant them
lands free, even from the expence of their survey. One Hundred
acres were granted to the Heads of the family & fifty to every other
person belonging to it. this quota was afterwards reduced by Gov-
ernor White, about the year 1802” to fifty acres to the Heads of the
family & twenty five acres to every other person thereof above the
age of Sixteen. He also imposed, as conditions, that possession should
be taken within six months after the grant was made, the right of
which was forfited after two years abandonment, in the intermediate
term of ten years possession, when any other person had the right
to locate the same & retain it under the same conditions. In the
year 1815 an other Royal Order was issued requiring of the Governors
* Dated Nov. 29, 1789, proclaimed Nov. 20, 1790 (White, ed., New Colls. Laws,
II, 276–277; A. S. P. Pub. Lands, v, 749).
* Dated Oct. 12, 1803 (White, op.cit., pp. 277–278; A. S. P., op.cit., pp. 749–750).



622 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
to grant, as a special act of grace, to all those persons, who had
defended that Province in the revolution of 1812, a quota of land,
in fee simple, agreeably to their head rights”—The governors of that
Province, also made grants of lands agreeably to the provisions of
the Laws of Indias & for the incouragement of Saw Mills, tan yards,
& cattle ranges. But with the exception of those grants made in
complyance of the Royal order of 1815, the titles to most of the others
depended on the performance of Sertan conditions respectively stated
in those grants.-It may happen that the Governors of West Florida
may have had to adopt quite a different policy from that of the
Governors of East Florida.-I have also to state that the Act of Con-
gress, passed last session, to ascertain titles to lands in Florida, if
allowed to remain in its present shape will jeopardise the rights of
the United States to lands in that territory & expose the Inhabitants
to great expence; in as much as it seems to allow the existance of
British emigrant right to lands there. A Right not in existance under
the Spanish government. The deraingment of titles required by that
Act, when the Claimant is not the original owner, may put the Com-
missioners & the parties to great inconvenience & in many instances,
may be utterly unattainable—the fees to the surveyors is to great,
particularly as most of the proprietors have already paid for the sur-
vey of their lands—the fees allowed to the Secretary of the Board of
Commissions for recording titles aught to be repeald: nor aught
the Inhabitants to be put to any expence in the exhibition of their
titles or proofs of property, where the title is a bonafide one—the
quantity of land on which the Commissioners are authorized to decid
by that Act, would not imbrace the Planters of that Territory; many
of whom, have from 20 to upwards of One Hundred werkers persons—
Shoud not an additional Board of Commissioners be appointed this
Session of Congress. I can only add, that the settlement of East
Florida will be retarded at least three years longer; & whether it would
be right to deprive the Inhabitants of the use of their property,’till
after the session of Congress for the year 1825, is an injury which I
hope the Senate will take into consideration
I have the Honor to be With much respect Your Most Ob Serv'
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ Delegate from Florida
To the Honorable The President of the Senate.
[Endorsed] 17 Cong 2 Sess L, Representation of Joseph M. Her-
nandez the Delegate from Florida respecting the Land Claims in that
Territory 1823 Feb. 17 read & refd to the Com” on public Lands.”
75 Dated Mar. 29, 1815 (White, op. cit., pp. 279–280; A. S. P., op. cit., p. 750).
7° Senate Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., pp. 158–159. A bill to that end became
law on Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 754–756).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 623
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO THE PRESIDENT 77
[NA: HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.:LS)
Department of State WASHINGTON 17. February 1823.
The Secretary of State to whom has been referred the Resolution
of the House of Representatives of the United States of the 31* of
January last,” requesting information of the President relative to
the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of ascertaining titles and
claims to Land in Florida, has the honour of Reporting to the President
of the United States, that two of the said Commissioners, Mr. Overton
and Mr Ware, have attended to and discharged so far as they were
enabled by circumstances so to do, the duties assigned them—That
no one of the said Commissioners has resigned or refused, or so far
as is known to this Department neglected to act—That Col' Preston
the only one of the said Commissioners who has not joined in the
execution of the duties assigned to the Commissioners, is believed to
have been on his way or about to proceed to Pensacola, when he re-
ceived information of the prevalence of the fatal disease in that place,
which prevented the Commissioners from holding their Sessions there,
and rendered it impossible for them to perform the duties assigned to
them within the time prescribed by the Act of the last Session of
Congress; upon receiving which information he repaired to St. Augus-
time—No communication to that effect has however been received at
the Department of State from himself "-Col " Preston has received
the amount of one Quarters compensation—The two other Com-
missioners have received Compensation for two Quarters.
All which is respectfully submitted
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 18" Feby 1823
SIR I have noticed in the National Intelligencer, the Nominations
which you have been pleased to make for the Legislative Council of
Florida, & deem it my duty to communicate to you that M* Greenbury
Geather is not only the Judge of the Inferior Court established by the
late Council of that territory at Penzacola; but, that he advocated, as
I have been informed, the raising of a Revenue in that territory
through the system of enormous taxes, & was also in favour of the
Military voting for a Delegate to Congress.-As the appointment of a
Marshal for East Florida has not yet been mad, I respectfully recom-
” An enclosure in the President to the House of Representatives, Feb. 19, 1823.
* January 30 is meant; cf. House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 181.
* See ante, p. 514, n.



624 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
mend to your consideration M* Waters Smith, now Mayor of Sº
Augustine,” or Mº William Levingston, the former Gentleman has
solicited the appointment, with the recommendation of many highly
respectable persons of that City, either of them, Are qualified for the
Office.81–
Should an additional Board of Commissioners be Appointed to
settle land Claims in East Florida, I would also respectfully recommend
M* Francis J. Fatio, as secretary to the Board, He is a Gentleman of
merit, native & with respectable connexions in Sº Augustine, he has
been educated in the United States & understands the Spanish
language, which Ought to be an indispensable requisite.*—
I have the Honor to be with high Respect Your most ob" Serv"
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
To the President of the United States.—
[Addressed] To the President of the United States.
[Endorsed] Hernandez Jo" M. 18" February 1823—nominations
for the Legislative Council in Florida—Secretary of Sate Mr Her-
nandez—
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF WEST FLORIDA
DISTRICT
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.; DS ºl
[Referred February 19, 1823]
To the Hon. the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
in Congress assembled.
The Memorial of the Citizens of West Florida respectfully sheweth:
That at the last Session of the Legislative Council a Law was passed
for raising a revenue in this Territory, the provisions of which sub-
jected Lands to a Tax of twentyfive cents per hundred acres, town
property to twelve and a half cents for every hundred Dollars, every
free male person above twenty one years to One Dollar, and every
slave above ten years to fifty cents, besides very heavy taxes on
billiard tables, auctioneers, tavern licences, &c.” Since the passage
of the Law, however, the Contingent expences of the Council, and
printing of its Acts, have been paid by the General Government with
a munificence honorable in the highest degree to its magnanimous and
liberal policy. Your Memorialists are so much the more penetrated
with gratitude at this liberality, as the General Government, in the
midst of its multifarious and important duties, could not be supposed
* See post, p. 639.
* Ante, p. 529.
* No reply found. - -
* Printed also, without the signatures, in H. Doc. 75, 17 Cong., 2 sess.
* Fla., Acts, 1822, pp. 67–78; H. Rept. 52, 17 Cong., 2 sess.



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 625
to have an intimate knowledge of their truly deplorable situation.
They therefore respectfully represent, that a resort to territorial taxa-
tion is totally unnecessary, and in the present wretched condition of
this Territory, an infant and helpless member of the Union, without
population, without roads to encourage that population, and bowed
still lower to the dust from the fatal effects of a most malignant
epidemy, is peculiarly burthensome and oppressive.
Your Memorialists would also respectfully submit that the claims
to Lands and town property have not yet been, and are not likely soon
to be, decided upon, so that the Claimants cannot find purchasers
for almost the only means they have to look to for their support, and
many of them so far from being able to pay this tax, have hardly a
bare subsistence. In some cases the tax is greater than the Lands
could be sold for, and in one or two it amounts to several thousand
Dollars for pine barren lands. Slaves also so far from being a source
of revenue to their owners, are in the present prostrate state of the
Country, a mere incumbrance.
Your Memorialists therefore pray that the several provisions of the
aforementioned Law be for the present dispensed with: They solicit
this with the more confidence, as it is a fundamental principle of the
Constitution of this free Country that there can be no taxation without
representation.
Your Memorialists hope this favor from your known justice and
liberality
And they will, as in duty bound, ever pray &c.
Jº Bonifay Joseph Noriega
Pierre Bertrand jSerbes
Carlos Duvalle Felipe Prieto
Yñigo Garcia Celestino Gonzalez
Sebastian Caro M Simon
Lorenzo Pla Pedro E Alba
Jose Roch Sebastian Barrios
Hy Michelet Agustin Perez
Manuel del Barco F. Moreno
Lorenzo Bru O: Mitchel
Franco Sºº Palmes James Quin
Jose Sierra Gabriel Hernandez
Luis Gagmet Juan Brosnaham
C. S. Lesassier James Sikes
Juan Moreno Marcos DeVilliers
J" dela Rua Fran” Lopis (Slopis?)
Juan Innerarity Miguel Quigles
Pablo Lugaya D Torri
Arnald Guillemard
301867–57—41



626 T E R R. I TOR I. A L PA PERS
[Endorsed] 75. Memorial of Sundry Citizens of West Florida
Feb' 19–1823 Read and referred to the Committee of the Whole
House to which is committed, the Bill to amend the Act for the estab-
lishment of a Territorial government in Florida Hernandez 17 CW
Union 242 & print”
ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., W 240:LS)
PENSACOLA, February, 20° 1823.
SIR; Your letter, under date of 20° December last has been
received.” It is very gratifying to find, that the measures adopted
by me for the purpose of explaining to the Indians of Florida the
causes which produced a failure of the treaty, and thereby preventing
any unfriendly feelings towards the United States, have been con-
sidered judicious, and have met the approbation of your Depart-
ment—
I regret to state to you, that Col. Humphreys returned to Pensacola
in a few days subsequent to his leaving it for St. Marks. The causes
you will find explained in his letter to me; a copy of which is herewith
enclosed.—
I had, sometime since, the honor of addressing you in relation to
my duties as Secretary of this Territory,” and respectfully solicited
any suggestions which might have been dictated by your view of the
subject. The engagements of your Department, which are no doubt,
very pressing during the Session of Congress, have, I imagine, pre-
vented you from complying heretofore with this request.—
In my former communication, an opinion was intimated, that the
law by which the Government of Florida was organized, did not
contemplate my performing the duties of Clerk to the Governor as
ex officio superintendent of Indian Affairs. Further inquiry and
reflection have contributed to strengthen and sustain the correctness
of this position. By referring to the letter of the Secretary of War,
bearing date 11” April, 1822.* addressed to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and transmitting sundry statements in relation
to the Indian Department, I find that the Governors of Territories
are by law, ex officio superintendents of Indian Affairs,” and are
allowed $1,500, as a compensation for Clerk hire, office rent, fuil,
&c.—
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 232. In regard to taxation in the territory,
see sec. 6 of act approved Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 752).
* NA(OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
* Ante, p. 556.
* A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 364–368. Original not found.
* A rule extending as far back as 1788; see Terr. Papers (N.W.), II, 189–190,
420–421; ibid., (La-Mo.), XIV, 553; ibid. (Ark.), xix, 46. See post, p. 689.



: F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 627
From this statement of the War Department, it would clearly
appear, that the functions of Governor were seperate and distinct
from those which attached to him as Superintendent of Indian
Affairs.-In the first case, a Secretary is provided, receiving his
appointment from the President with the advice and consent of the
Senate of the United States; in the second, the Governor is authorized
to employ Clerks for a special purpose. As Governor, a salary,
fixed by law, is allowed for his services; as Superintendent, no Salary
is provided, but a particular sum appropriated to cover the expences
incident to hiring a Clerk, office rent, fuel, &c.—Had the agency of
the Secretary been required to perform these services, he would have
been so designated; his salary, it is conceived, would have been
rendered amply sufficient to meet them, and this provision for Clerk
hire &c be entirely superfluous. Agreeably to my understanding of
the law, its intention must, therefore have been, that as superintendent
of Indian Affairs, the governor is authorized to employ a seperate
Clerk, for which an adequate compensation is allowed, as also a sum
sufficient to cover the disbursements for office rent, full &c.—
In the absence of the Governor from the Territory, when the duties
of Superintendent devolves on the Secretary, it is with due deference
submitted to your consideration, whether he should not be allowed
the same compensation for his Services, and for the purpose of meeting
similar expenditures. Thus situated, not only the ordinary services of
Secretary were required to be rendered, but those in addition which
belong to the Governor and the Superintendent of Indian Affairs.
With this trible labor and responsibility imposed upon me, it would
have been altogether impracticable for me to have discharged my
duty with fidelity, without the employment of a Clerk. To this
burden I have been necessarily subjected ever since the Governor's
departure from Florida for the State of Kentucky.”—
As I am averse to prefering any account against the Government
which is not perfectly just and equitable, I should be sincerely thankful
to you for any suggestions which would assist in forming a definitive
opinion upon this subject; Of this I am satisfied—that the services
have been rendered; if I am entitled to any remuneration, I am
equally convinced, that the Government, in the distribution of equal
justice, will be disposed to make the proper allowance.”—
* See Sen. R. M. Johnson to the Secretary of War, Jan. 8, 1823 (NA,WD, SW
Lets. Recd., J. 91), inquiring relative to the allowances paid to the Governor as
Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and the latter's reply, Jan. 13, 1823 (NA,OIA,
SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E), to the effect that laws do not provide additional compensa-
tion to territorial governors acting as superintendents of Indians, but in practice it
is usual to allow expenses incurred and extra compensation for holding treaties.
See post, p. 774. -
* Answered post, p. 654.



628 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
With the highest considerations of respect and esteem, I am yr. mo.
ob" ser"
GEO WALTON Sec'y &c. &c.—
HON. JOHN C. CALHOUN. Secy of War.
[Endorsed] Walton. G. &c Pensacola, 20 Feby, 1823. relative to
the paying him for a clerk employed by him; to the return of Col'
Humphreys to Pensacola; &c.
[Enclosure]
Gad Humphreys to Acting Governor Walton
(Copy) PENSACOLA, W. F. 5* Feby 1823.
SIR, I regret to be obliged to state, that after a fruitless effort to
reach St. Marks, in compliance with your instructions, of the 21”
Ultimo; * I have been compelled, in an impaired state of health, to
return to this place—
I embarked, on the 27* Jan’ in the schooner, Amelia, bound to St.
Marks, as a transport, with Major Wilson,” of the Army: After being
out eight days in the most boisterous weather (during which we ex-
perienced a severe gale) without being able to make our port of destina-
tion; Major Wilson who contrould the Wessel, and whose health was
in an alarming situation, ordered her back to Pensacola, where we
arrived yesterday.—
So soon as I am a little recovered from the effects of this voyage, I
shall be ready to make a second attempt, or to receive and obey your
further instructions.”—
With the highest respect Yr. Mo. Ob"Ser'
G. HUMPHREYS, Indian Agent.
HIS ExCELY GEO. WALTON, Esq. Act" Gov. Florida
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE HERNANDEZ
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 22 Feby 1823
HONBLE JOS: M. HERNANDEZ Ho: of Rep's U States.
SIR, Finding by the enclosed estimate which I have just received
that the expense of opening a road from Pensacola to Sº Augustine,
by the labor of troops,” will be greater than the Department would be
willing to incur, without the authority of Congress, and as the road is
considered very important to the people of Florida, I transmit the
* Ante, p. 601.
* William Wilson.
* See post, p. 672.
** Ante, p. 608.



FL, OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 629
same to you with two letters of the acting Governor on the subject,”
in order if you should deem it expedient you may lay them before the
Committee of Ways & Means for the purpose of obtaining an appro-
priation of the sum estimated to be necessary for the object.
As the papers enclosed are originals, I will thank you to return them
to this Department, as soon as you have done with them.”
I have &c J. C. C.
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA: SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 25* Feby 1823
SIR I have just recº information that M de la Rua, one of the
Gentlemen which I done myself the Honor to recommend to you, as
a fit person to be appointed one of the Members of the next Legislative
Council of Florida, is now Mayor of the City of Penzacola, An office
which he probably will not wish to resign.—I therefore respectfully
beg leave to recommend to your Consideration, M Octavius Mitchel,
a resident of Penzacola, & a Gentleman of information & high
respectability.—
I have the Honor to be with much respect Your Most Obt Serv"
JOSEPH M. HERNANDEZ
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.—
[Addressed] To the President of the United States
[Endorsed] Hernandez Joseph M. 25* February 1823. with a letter
enclosed—Secretary of State Mr Hernandez
SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS OF TERRITORIAL OFFICIALs
[NA: GAO, Diplomatic and Consular Accts., No. 1229:DS]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT 5* Auditors Office, Feb. 25. 1823–
No: 1.229.
I hereby certify that I have examined and adjusted an Account
between the United States and Fontaine Maury, agent of the Depart-
ment of State in relation to the treaty with Spain of 22 February 1819,
and find that he is entitled to credit as follows—
By the following payments made by him, as agent aforesaid, as p his
account approved by the Secretary of State, herewith—viz.
To Joseph L. Smith, Judge in East Florida, paid in
full of his Salary from 30. April to 31. De-
cember 1822 at $1,500 p annum p voucher Nº. 1 $1,001 37
* See ante, p. 606. No other letter found.
* Answered post, p. 642.



630
T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
“ William Reynolds, Edmund Law, Greenberry
A. Gaither, James R. Hanham, & George
Murray, members of the legislative council
of Florida, paid their assignee Alex. M'Intire
their allowance for mileage in attending the
Session of said council commencing the
second monday in June 1822
“ William Reynolds, paid him for his services as a
member of said council from 22. July to 17.
September 1822 at $3 p day also an allow-
ance for mileage, returning from Pensacola
the seat of Government to St. Augustine his
place of residence say 860 miles at $3 for
every 20 miles
“. Joseph M. White, paid him for his services as a
member of ditto—ditto—from 22 June to 18
September 1822 @ $3
“ H. M. Breckenridge, Judge of the Superior
Court in West Florida, paid him on account
of Salary from 5. June to 4. December 1822
at $1,500 p annum
“ James R. Hanham, paid him for his services as
a member of the Legislative council afore-
said, from 21. July to 24. August 1822 inclu-
sive at $3 p day, also an allowance for mileage
from the Seat of Government to St. Augus-
tine his place of residence 860 miles at $3
for every 20 miles
“ Nathaniel A. Ware, one of the Commissioners
to settle land claims in Florida, paid him on
account of Salary from 8. May to 7. Novem-
ber 1822 at $2,000 p annum
“ James P. Preston, Ditto—Ditto—Ditto, paid
him on account of Ditto—from 8. May to—
at same
“ William P. Duval, Governor of the Floridas,
&
&
paid him on account of salary from 17. April
to 17. October 1822 at $2,500 p annum
George Murray, paid him for his services as a
member of the Legislative council aforesaid
from 22. July to 17. September 1822 at $3
p day, also an allowance for mileage in
returning from the seat of Government to
St. Augustine his place of residence, say 860
miles at $3 for every 20 miles
& 4 2
“ 3
& 4 4
“ 5
& 4 7
& 4 8
& & 9
& 4 11
645 00
303 00
261 00
750 00
234 00
1,000 00
500 00
1,250 00
303 00



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y
631
“ Samuel R. Overton, one of the commissioners to
settle land claims in Florida, paid his draft in
favor of William Duncan or Order, dated 25.
Oct. 1822, on account of salary from 8. May
1822 at $2,000 p annum
“Post Master at Nashville, paid his bill for
Postages on sundry letters addressed to Gen.'
Andrew Jackson, as Governor of the Floridas
on official business, from 8. February to 16.
July 1822
“ Edmond Law, paid him for his services as a
member of the Legislative Council of Florida
from 22. July to 17. September 1822 at $3 p
day, also for his allowance for mileage in re-
turning from Pensacola, the seat of govern-
ment to St. Augustine, his place of residence
860 miles at $3 for every 20 miles p voucher
“John Miller, paid his assignee, Alex. M'Intire
for his services as a member of Ditto—
Ditto—from 22 July to 18 September 1822
at $3 p day
“ Lawrence Kearney Esq. commander of the U.
States Brig Enterprize, paid him for Cabin
Stores & Maintenance of Mess" Smith,
Scott, Robinson & their families on their
passage in said Wessel from Washington City
to Pensacola
“ Alexander Hamilton, District Attorney of the
u states in East Florida paid him the amount
of his compensation from 25. April to 25.
October 1822 at $200 p annum
“John Martin Baker, paid him for his services
as a Clerk in the Department of State, up to
12. October 1822
“Ware and Overton, commissioners for settling
land claims in Florida, paid them on account
of the Contingent Expenses of their Com-
missions
“ Richard K. Call, paid him for his services as a
member of the legislative council in Florida,
from 22. July to 18. September 1822 at $3 p
day
& 4 12
“13
No 14
º 15
& 4 16
& 4 17
& 4 18
4 & 19
& 4 20
500 00
14 00
303 00
177 00
400 00
100 00
33 00
248 00
177 00



632 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
“ Farquhar Bethune, paid him the amount of
his compensation for 32 days attendance as
an associate Judge in the county court of
St. Johns, at $5 p day “21 160 00
“Edward A. Rutledge, paid him for services
rendered as a translator & Interpreter to the
government of Florida, from 20. June to 20.
September 1822 at $1 p day “22 92 00
8,451 37
By William P. Duval, Governor of the Floridas
To this sum sum paid him p draft dated 25. Sep-
tember 1822 in favor of Mess” Stone & Todd to
beapplied in defraying the Expenses of Govern-
ment and with which he is to be charged & held
Accountable No 10 3,300 00
Dollars-- 11,751 37
I also find that he is chargeable with the follow-
ing—Viz.
To balance due from him p Report N° 1, 210 and
Registers Certificate herewith 10,646 22
Leaving a balance due from the United States unto
the said Fontaine Maury of One thousand, one
hundred, five dollars and fifteen cents, with
which he is to be Credited 1,105 15
Dollars-- 11,751 37
As appears from the statement and Vouchers herewith, trans-
mitted for the decision of the Comptroller of the Treasury thereon.
STEPHEN PLEASANTON Aud'
To Joseph ANDERSON Esq. Comptroller of the Treasury of the
United States.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT Comptrollers Office March 27* 1823
Admitted & Certified
JOS ANDERSON Compr
To Jo". NourSE Esq." Register
JOHN MCLEAN 98 TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
GEN. LAND OFFICE 27th Feby 1823.
SIR, Several of the Florida records of land titles are wanting, and
unless they can be obtained, much litigation may arise. Some of the
* Commissioner of the General Land Office.



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 633
records which we have, contain only indexes of title, but which of
necessity must be relied on, as the best evidence that can be produced.
If practicable, all the Volumes that contain evidence of title in the
territory, should be obtained. The Volumes which we have, I under-
stand, were procured by the Hon. Mº King when he was minister in
England, and this leads to a presumption, that the absent Volumes
may be found in that country, if further search be made. Mr King
can probably give some facts, which may assist the enquiry.
I submit the above to your consideration, and would respectfully
suggest, whether it would not be proper to write to Mr Rush * on the
subject.
I am very respectfully your obedient servant
JOHN MºDEAN
HON. JoHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
|Addressed] Hon. John Q. Adams Secretary of State
|Endorsed] M*Lane John Land office, 27 feb: 1823 Recd same day.
Land Records of florida.
t-
MEMORANDUM BY DELEGATE HERNANDEZ RE OPENING
ROADS IN FLORIDA TERRITORY
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Recd.:C)
[February (?), 1823]
Florida Roads.
The road required to be opened from the River Sº Mary's
(Colerain in Georgia) to the Cowford ' on the river Sº Johns
about 42
The Same is open and in good order from the Crawford to S'
Augustine—about 40
distance from Sº Mary's to S' Augustine 82
From Sº Augustine to the Head of the river Mantanzes, it re-
quires to be opened about 30
From The Head of the River Matanzes to Tomoca or the Mos-
quito, it is open and in good order 35
From Tomoca it requires to be opened to the old town of Old
Smyrna, at Mosquito about 30
Distance from Sº Mary's in a due South course— 177
* Richard Rush, U. S. Minister to England.
1 The first letter “o” in this word is written over “ra.” The other “Crawfords”
in this document should also be “Cowford,” the original name for what became
Jacksonville.



634 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
This Road was originally opened by the British Government, at
great expense, the principal causeways are nearly as good as hew ever,
and it can be repaired with very little labor.
It is necessary the the forty two miles distance from the river Sº
Mary's to the Crawford should be opened in order that the mail to Sº
Augustine may be sent upon it as directed by the Act of Congress
passed last session.—
The 30 Miles required to be opened from Sº Augustine to join the
Tomoca road at the head of the river Matanzas, is of importance &
will take but little labor to put in good order; after which, the 30 Miles
required from the tomoca to the Town of New Smyrna will contribute
much to promote the interest of that important part of the Territory,
where the best sugar lands are...—
The direction which I have given to the road from Sº Augustine to
Pensacola, is the same which the acting Governor suggests in his letter
to the Secretary of War, which will probably be sent to the Senate
with the Bill passed in the House of Rep* authorizing the opening of
those roads, and in which I hope the Senate will concur.
Sig" JoSEPH M HERNANDEZ
HON” JOHN WILLIAMS Senate.
[Endorsed] Gen.' Hernandez remarks on the Roads of Florida.
[Enclosure:Pr.]
Bill for Opening Roads in Florida Territory
H. R. 275 February 5, 1823.
Read twice, and committed to a Committee of the whole House on
the state of the Union.
A Bill To authorize the laying out and opening certain public roads in
the Territory of Florida.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the
United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to cause to be opened
in the Territory of Florida, a road from the river St.Mary's to the
old town of Smyrna, at Mosquitto, formerly the district of Mosquitto,
in said Territory, in the old track of a road known by the name of
the King's road, passing by Jacksonsville, on the river St. John's and
St. Augustine, to the said old town of Smyrna; and a road from St.
Augustine, to Pensacola, passing by Picolata, on the river St. John's,
to head the river St. Marks, and terminating at the point of land lying
between the waters of St. Rose's Channel, and Pensacola Bay: which
roads shall be plainly and distinctly marked, and shall be of the width
of [two) * rods.
* Portions in brackets were added in longhand.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 635
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That the President be, and he is
hereby, authorized to employ the troops of the United States, stationed
in Florida, in such manner as he may think proper, in the completion,
or in assisting in the completion, of the said roads.
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That, for defraying the expense of
opening the said roads, the sum of [fifteen thousand] * dollars be,
and the same is hereby, appropriated, to be paid out of any money
in the Treasury, not otherwise appropriated.
[passed by the H R “and sent to the Senate for concurrence—where
its final passage was obstructed for want of time to act upon it, on
the last evening of the Session Sig" J. M. Hernandez.] *
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO WATERS SMITH
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 1 March 1823
WATERs SMITH Esquire Mayor of the City of St. Augustine E. Florida.
SIR. In answer to your letter of the 11 Ultimo “I am directed by
the President of the United States to inform you, that in consideration
of the circumstances therein mentioned, the debts contracted by the
City Council of Sº Augustine, during the year 1821, owing to the prev-
alence of the yellow fever at that place, will be paid from the fund
appropriated by the Act of Congress of 3 March 1821 for carrying
into execution the Treaty between the United States and Spain, so
far as the expenditures shall upon the examination of the accounts for
the same, appear to have been just and Reasonable.”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
AN AMENDING ACT TO REGULATE CLAIMS AND
TITLES TO LAND
[NA:SD, Original Statutes:DS "]
[March 3, 1823]
An Act Amending, and supplementary to, the act “for ascertaining
claims and titles to land in the territory of Florida,” and to provide for
the survey and disposal of the public lands in Florida.-
- * Portions in brackets were added in longhand.
* The bill was reported by the Committee on Roads and Canals on Feb. 5, 1823,
and passed and sent to the Senate on Feb. 27 (House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess.,
pp. 197, 275, 276). In the Senate it was reported without amendment on Feb.
27, but on Mar. 1 it was ordered to lie on the table (Senate Journal, 17 Cong.,
2 sess., pp. 220, 242–243).
* Ante, p. 617.
* See post, p. 724.
* Printed also in 3 STAT. 754–756.
* Ante, p. 424.



636 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the powers of the board
of commissioners heretofore appointed, for ascertaining claims and
titles to lands in the territory of Florida,” shall be confined, exclusively,
to the examination of titles and claims in that portion of said terri-
tory, heretofore known as West Florida; and that, for ascertaining
titles and claims in East Florida, the President is hereby authorised
in the recess of the Senate to appoint three commissioners" which
appointments shall be of force until the end of the next session of
Congress, thereafter who may appoint their Secretary and who with
their Secretary shall within the district of East Florida possess all the
powers given by, perform all the duties required and shall in all re-
spects, be subject to, the provisions and restrictions of the act of the
eighth of May, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-two, entitled
“An act for ascertaining claims and titles to lands in the territory of
Florida,” ecept so far as the same is altered or changed by the pro-
visions of this act; which board of commissioners, heretofore appointed,
with that hereafter appointed, shall hold their sessions, severally, at
the place within their respective districts, heretofore designated by
law; but may adjourn to some other convenient place within their
* The background of this act is found in the difficulties encountered by the Land
Commissioners appointed pursuant to the act approved May 8, 1822 (ante, p.
424). The Commissioners commenced their examination of land titles at
Pensacola, W. Fla., and when the work was completed they were to transfer their
activities to St. Augustine, in E. Fla. On Oct. 21, 1822, the two active members of
the Board recommended to the Secretary of State a measure to extend the time
prescribed by law for finishing the business in E. Fla. (ante, p. 552), which had been
delayed by lack of official papers and by the prevalence of yellow fever. This
letter was laid before the House of Representatives by the Speaker, Jan. 15, 1823
(House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 132). In a memorial to Congress from
E. Fla., Nov. 29, 1822 (ante, p. 570), complaint was made on the delay in the
adjustment of land claims in that area. On Dec. 30, 1822, the President was
requested by the House of Representatives to submit such information as was in
the possession of the executive departments respecting the proceedings of the
board in fulfilling its duties in Florida Territory (House Journal, op. cit., p. 84).
The President transmitted to the House on Feb. 19, 1823, a report of the Secretary
of State (NA, SD, Repts., Bk. 4) to the effect that Commissioners Ware and
Overton had attended to the discharge of their duties, and that Preston, the third
Commissioner, had never reached Florida. On Jan. 17, 1823, the Senate Com-
mittee on Public Lands reported a bill to amend the act of May 8, 1822, and on
Feb. 10, the House Committee on Public Lands introduced a like measure (Senate
Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 91; House Journal, 17 Cong., 1 sess., p. 211). The
bills thus introduced were amended several times. As first proposed, no provision
was made for the survey and sale of public lands, but was added as an amendment.
The further legislative history of the act may be followed in Senate Journal,
op. cit., pp. 94, 104, 153, 158, 161, 169, 184, 213, 214, 221, 244, 247, 250; House
Journal, op. cit., pp. 240, 275, 276, 304, 308; Annals, 17th Cong., 2 sess., cols.
151, 235, 244, 252, 258, 269, 292, 299, 322, 481, 1065, 1090, 1091, 1124, 1142,
1170, 1171.
* Post, pp. 656, 711.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 637
district, and may continue their sessions until the second Monday
in February next, when they shall make a return of their proceedings
to the Secretary of the Treasury, to be laid before Congress.-
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That, in the examination of titles
to land before either of said boards of commissioners, the claimant or
claimants shall not be required to produce in evidence, the deraign-
ment of title from the original grantee or patentee, but the com-
missioners shall confirm every claim in favour of actual settlers at the
time of the session of the said Territory to the United States, where
the quantity claimed does not exceed three thousand five hundred
acres where such deraignment cannot be obtained, the validity of
which has been recognized by the Spanish Government and where the
claimant or claimants shall produce satisfactory evidence of his, her,
or their right to the land claimed: And said commissioners shall have
the power, any law to the contrary notwithstanding, of deciding on
the validity of all claims derived from the Spanish government, in
favour of actual settlers where the quantity claimed does not exceed
three thousand five hundred acres;
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That each of the commissioners
heretofore appointed, who has performed, and shall hereafter perform,
the duties assigned him, shall receive compensation in proportion to
that heretofore allowed him.—And each of the commissioners here-
after appointed for East Florida, who shall actually perform the duties
assigned him, shall receive the sum of Two thousand dollars, as a full
compensation, payable quarterly, from the Treasury of the United
States.—
SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That, it shall be the duty of the
District Attorneys for said Districts, respectively, whenever required
to do so by the Commissioners within his district, to attend them for
the purpose of arguing and explaining any points of law that may be
deemed necessary to be examined; and said Attorney shall be en-
titled to the same compensation therefor as when attending on the
district court of said territory.—
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That all claims not filed with the
Commissioners of the district, where the land claimed is situated, in
the manner prescribed by the act to which this is an amendment, on or
before the first day of December next, shall be held to be void, and
of none effect.—
SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of the
Marshall to execute and make return of all process which may be
issued by the said commissioners; or the Commissioners may, where
they deem it necessary, authorize and empower any other person to
execute and return said process.
SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That, so soon as the Commissioners
shall have decided and reported on the private claims in said Territory



638 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
of Florida, a surveyor shall be appointed for the territory of Florida,
who shall keep his office at such place, within the said Territory as the
President of the United States shall designate; and shall receive the
sum of Two thousand Dollars, payable quarterly, at the Treasury of
the United States."—
SEC. 8. And be it further enacted; That, for the disposal of the lands
of the United States, lying in the District of East Florida, a Land
Office shall be established and kept at such place, within said District,
as the President of the United States shall direct; and that, for the
disposal of the lands of the United States lying in the District of West
Florida, a Land Office shall be established at such place, in said Dis-
trict, as the President of the United States shall direct.—
SEC. 9. And be it further enacted, That, so soon as, in the opinion of
the President of the United States, there shall be a sufficient quantity
of the public lands surveyed, within either of the Districts of East or
West Florida, to authorize the opening of one or both of the Land
Offices aforesaid, he shall cause the same to be opened, and shall
proceed, from time to time, to appoint, with the advice and consent
of the Senate, for each of the said Offices, a Register and Receiver
of the Public Moneys, who shall give security, in the same sums, and in
the same manner, and whose compensation, emoluments, duties, and
authority, shall, in every respect, be the same, in relation to the lands
to be disposed of at their offices, as are or may be provided by law in
relation to the Registers and Receivers of Public Moneys, in the several
land offices established for the disposal of the public lands of the
United States.—
SEC. 10. And be it further enacted, That, whenever a Land Office
shall have been established in either of the districts aforesaid, and a
Register and Receiver of Public Moneys appointed for the same, the
President of the United States shall be, and he is hereby, authorized
to direct so much of the public lands, lying in such district, as shall
have been surveyed according to law, to be offered for sale, in the
same manner, and with the same reservations and exceptions, and on
the same terms and conditions, in every respect, as have been, or may
hereafter be, provided for the sale of the public lands of the United
States.”—
SEC. 11. And be it further enacted, That an entire township, in each
of the Districts of East and West Florida, shall be reserved from sale,
for the use of a seminary of learning, to be located by the Secretary
of the Treasury.—
SEC. 12. And be it further enacted, That all the navigable rivers and
waters in the Districts of East and West Florida shall be, and forever
remain, public highways.-
1" See post, p. 942.
11 See post, vol. xxiii, Jan. 26, 1825.



FLO RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 639
SEC. 13. And be it further enacted, That so much of the act, approved
the eighth day of May, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-two,
entitled “An act for ascertaining claims and titles to land in the
territory of Florida,” as is inconsistent with the provisions of this act,
be, and the same is hereby, repealed; and so much thereof as provides
for the appointment of a surveyor General, and allows him to charge
fees, is hereby repealed.—
PHILIP P. BARBOUR
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN GAILLARD
President of the Senate pro. tempore
Washington March 3. 1823 Approved JAMES MONROE
I certify that this act originated in the House of Representatives.—
S. BURCH Acting Clerk
COMMISSION OF WATERS SMITH AS UNITED STATES
MARSHAL (EAST FLORIDA)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[March 3, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity, ability and Diligence of WATERS SMITH of Florida, I have
nominated and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, do
appoint him Marshal in and for that part of the Territory of Florida,
known as East Florida; * and do authorize and empower him to
execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to Law; and to
Have and to Hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and
emoluments to the same of right appertaining unto him the said
Waters Smith, for the term of four years from the day of the date
hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being,
should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
12 Smith's nomination, Feb. 27, 1823, was confirmed Mar. 3 (Senate, Exec.
Journal, III, 337, 338). The commission was not transmitted to Smith until
May 14, 1823 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx).
is Several applicants were interested in this appointment. James R. Hanham,
sheriff of St. Johns County, Fla., was recommended to the President, Mar. 22,
1822, by the justices of the court of that county, viz.: George Murray, T. Reynolds,
Farquhar Bethune, F. P. Fatio, and Edmund Law. Alexander Hamilton also
wrote to the President on Hanham's behalf, Apr. 5, 1822, as did two groups of
citizens of E. Fla. in undated letters. Hanham himself wrote the Sec. of State on
Sept. 28, 1822, enclosing letters from John Swartwout and Daniel D. Tompkins,
of New York, testifying to his meritorious army service, and on Feb. 3, 1823,
Judge Smith recommended him to the President. Thomas H. Penn, the post-
master at St. Augustine, was recommended to the Sec. of State by Rep. Robert



640 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
In Testimony whereof I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the third day of March A.D. 1823; and of the Independence of the
United States of America the Forty Seventh.
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State,
-
COMMISSION OF MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE
COUNCIL
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[March 3, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of An Act of Congress passed on the
third day of the present month, entitled “An Act to amend an act
for the establishment of a Territorial Government in Florida, and
for other purposes,” “ and reposing special Trust and Confidence in
the Integrity and Abilities of George Murray, William Reynolds,
Joseph Noriega,” Richard K. Call, William Barnet, Gabriel William
Perpall, Edward R. Gibson, William H. Simmons, Octavius Mitchell,
Peter Mitchell, John Bellamy, Zephaniah Kingsley, and Henry Yonge,
Senior, all of Florida,” I have nominated and by and with the advice
and Consent of the Senate of the United States, appointed them
and every of them Members of the Legislative Council of the said
Territory;" and do authorize and empower them and every of them
to execute and fulfil the duties of their said offices according to law;
and to Have and to Hold the same with all the rights thereunto legally
R. Reid (Ga.), Sept. 18, 1822, and on Dec. 20, 1822, Reid joined Sen. Nicholas
Ware (Ga.) in a letter to the same officer. William P. Dove applied for the
appointment to the President, Oct. 26, 1822, and to the Sec. of State, Nov. 11,
1822. Thomas D. Condy, of Charleston, addressed the President on behalf of
Dove, Nov. 11, 1822. All of the foregoing are in NA (SD, Applications).
14 3 STAT. 750–754. See sec. 5 revising similar provision of act approved Mar.
30, 1822 (ante, p. 391).
15 Noriega declined the appointment, because of ill health and business affairs,
in a letter of Apr. 10, 1823 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). A commission of May 29,
issued to Samuel Fry, was sent to Governor DuVal on June 2 (NA, SD, Temp.
Comms., Pres.; NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx).
16 The nomination by the President of Isaac N. Cox, of Pennsylvania, for an
appointment as a member of the Legislative Council on Jan. 2, 1823, to replace
James C. Bronaugh, deceased, was negatived on Feb. 26 (Senate, Exec. Journal,
III, 318, 333, 336). The act of Mar. 3, 1823 (3 STAT. 751) required six months'
residence in the Territory before appointment to the Legislative Council.
17 Nominated Mar. 1, 1823, and confirmed Mar. 3 (Senate, op. cit., p. 341).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 641
appertaining for the term of one year from the day of the date hereof
unless the President of the United States for the time being should
be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission as to all or any of the
said persons.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the
L.S. United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my
hand at the City of Washington the third day of March
A.D. 1823; and of the Independence of the United States of America,
the Forty Seventh.”
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
WASH. 5* March 1823
DEAR SIR I had the pleasure last evening to receive your very
flattering letter,” which was the more particularly acceptable, as it
has removed the apprehension, that in the solicitude of my feelings,
I might have improperly obtruded upon attention. The occasion
seemed peculiarly favourable, as affording a full justification for
abandoning Florida and now the temporary occupation of the Navy
Agency, exclusive of the pecuniary consideration, would be desirable
as presenting an ostensible valuable motive for resuming my residence
in New York. If I should be so fortunate, as to obtain ultimately
this office, your confidence will be amply justified, my prospects in
life revolutionized and the public be gratified. I will not give ques-
tionable but the best security for my integrity and men disconnected
with commerce—
I am with much respect Your Obt H Sert
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
JAMES MONROE Esq
[Endorsed) 5. March 1823 Halmilton Alexander Solicits the Navy
Agency at New York Mr Hamilton
* Commissions of council members from W. Fla. were forwarded to Secretary
Walton on Mar. 29, 1823, and for members from E. Fla. to George Murray on
Apr. 1 with the request that the members be notified of their appointment (NA,
SD, Dom. Lets., XX).
* Not seen.
301867–57—42



642 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
FONTAINE MAURY TO JOHN GARNIER
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 10 Mar. 1823
JOHN GARNIER Esquire Pensacola
SIR I have this day received your favour of the 13th Ultimo "
advising of your draft on me, as agent for the payment of claims on
this Department, for $520. in favour of Mº Barkley; in answer to which
I am directed by the Secretary to inform you, that with every disposi-
tion on his part, to cause this draft to be honoured, he cannot feel
himself justified to do so, until such documents shall be received at
this Office as were requested in my Letter to you of the 14 Ultimo, *
a copy of which in case of accidents, is herewith enclosed.”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and ob" Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, CE Lets. Recd.:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 11th March 1823
SIR Agreeably to your request, I have herewith the Honor to
return to you the estimate of the expense of opening a Road from S"
Augustine to Penzacola, by the labour of the troops of the United
States, Stationed in Florida, and also the two Letters from the Acting
Governor of that Territory, on that Subject. the same which you
were pleased to transmit to me in Your Communication of the 22"
Ulto; * With a request that I should lay them before Congress, which
I did accordingly.—
Knowing the interest you take, in the prosperity of the territory
which I have had the Honor to represent, I avail myself of this occa-
sion to call your attention to several Subjects vitally connected with
it.—
I herewith enclose a Bill which passed the House of Rep" authorizing
the opening of two roads; * both of which, are of the utmost impor-
tance to that territory. I also enclose a copy of a letter which I
adressed to Colonel Williams of the Senate,” relative to the roads
mentioned in that Bill, In hopes that you may have it in your power
to adopt some plan by which they may be opened during the recess
of Congress, as the late hour in which that Bill was sent to the Senate
prevented that Honorable Body from Acting upon it.—
* Ante, p. 618.
* Ante, p. 618.
* Answered post, p. 661.
* Ante, p. 628.
* Ante, p. 634.
** Ante, p. 633.



FL, OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 643
There are now a Considerable number of troops in that territory,
which, in the State of peace which we happily enjoy, Could probably
not be better employed than in the opening of those Roads, which in
the event of a war, cannot otherwise than prove very useful to the
Nation.—The advantages which the territory will enjoy from them
must be obvious to the Government, particularly, when it is con-
sidered, that its population is divided between S" Augustine and
Penzacola; and that the nearest practicable route, by which they can
at present communicate with each other, is, by land, upwards of seven
Hundred Miles.—
The Course which I have pointed out for the road from Sº Augustine
to Penzacola, is the same which the acting Governor suggests in his
communication to you of the 31* Jan’ last.” & which reduces the
distance considerably from that on which the estimate of expense was
founded, & will effect the same object.—
If the Government were to make a Donation of a Suitable tract of
land, at Such place as Should be deemed the most eligible for the
Seat of the territorial Government; Say, about the Suwanee, where
the lands are represented as being fertile, high & healthy. the two
Provinces, as under the Spanish Government, might be continued
united, And soon become a respectable State in the union,-Whereby,
it would be enabled to support the expences of its own Government.
Under the existing Circumstances of the two divisions of that territory,
it is with great difficulty, that one portion of the Members of the
Legislative Council can attend at their place of Meeting, which, must
either be held at S" Augustine or Penzacola.--Were it not, Sir, for the
high respect which the Inhabitants of that territory have for the
President and the imperative dictates of public duty, I am confident
that no person, competent to discharge the duties of that station
would accept of such an appointment: The alternative being presented
to them of performing a long and dangerous voyage of near 2000
Miles, or of travling by land, on horse back, upwards of 700 Miles,
through an unsettled; And during the Seson of rains, an almost im-
passable Country.
The Compensation allowed to the Members of that Legislative
Council, for travling, is only three Doll" for every twenty Miles,
which is scarcely adequate to defray their expences. These disad-
vantages will be obviated as soon as a Communication is opened
through the territory; as the distance then will probably not exceed
380 Miles between the two Cities.—The Seat of Government Aught
to be fixed as Near the Center as possible, in order that the population
of the two Sections of the territory may be brought near each other,
and mutual relations of interest and union be thereby established
and strengthened.—
* Ante, p. 606.



644 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I will further beg leave to Call your attention to the condition of
the Indians of that territory.—
Measures Should be adopted to Consentrate those Indians, as they
are now dispersed throughout the whole territory. If Suita- and
judicious Gentlemen, Known to enjoy their Confidence, were Selected
to Assemble their Chiefs & other influencial Men of their tribes, to
acquant them with the favourable disposition of the Government
towards them, & to Make them Sensible of the indispensable necessity
of their abandoning the Chase, & the propriety of resorting to to
Agricultural pursuits; and who should be empowerd to allot them a
Suitable place where they could plant to advantage and attend to the
increase of Stock. I Make No doubt that this great object would be
accomplished Much to their own interest and that of the Government.
Those Indians, for Many years, were the principal persons, who
supplied S" Augustine with Cattle & Horses, untill the year 1812
when they were forced from their Settlements; And being thus broken
up, have continued ever Since, without the least Kind of Spirit of
industry or enterprize,_they could at one time have been Considerd,
as having arrived at the first Stage Civilization, & with judicious
Management, they can be restored to their former Condition &,
become, as before, useful people.—But, I Nevertheless, entertain
some fears that from the Notions which have lately been impressed
on their minds, in regard to their being the ligitimate proprietors of
Most of the lands West of the river S" Johns, May oppose an obsticle
to bringing about this desired arrangement. However, Should the
troops be employed in the opening of the Road from Sº Augustine to
Penzacola, they will come very much in aid of the endeavours of the
Government to effect this object.—As the appointment of persons to
treat with them is of vast importance, I would Suggest the propriety
of Making the selection from those persons who are Known to possess
their confidence. The Indian agent, being a Stranger to them, would
not possess this advantage; And Acting alone, might find it difficult to
make them believe, that he was not exclusively devoted to the interest
of the United States.—
I would further beg leave to Solicit your attention to the subject
of the Public property in the Cities of Penzacola & Sº Augustine,—The
Committee of the House of Rep" to whome was referred a Memorial
from the City Council of Sº Augustine, praying for a Donation of
Certain public lots & Houses, for the Use of that City,” & a Resolution
of Mine relative to similar property in the City of Penzacola,” from
the Multiplicity of business before them, added to the shortness of
the late Session of Congress, were prevented from making any report
thereon. I have therefore, respectfully, to request you will com-
* Ante, p. 568.
* House Journal, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 147.



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 645
municate this circumstance to the President of the United States, in
hopes that he may be pleased to direct, that such of said property as
is not required for Revenue or Military purposes, may be retained in
the possession of the Corporations of said Cities, till Congress make a
disposition of it, -And to give directions to the Military Commandent
to permit the use of dry and Wholesome appartments in Fort S" Marks
in Sº Augustine, for the Confinement of criminals & debtors, untill
the resources of the territory will enable it to build a Jail. I Am the
more induced to call your particular attention, And of the President,
to the Subject of Public property, from having learned, that an un-
fortunate misunderstanding, has Subsisted between the Civil &
Military Authorities of that place, which is at all times much to be
deprecated.—
I cannot conclude this Letter without assuring you that the former
Subjects of Spain, residents of Florida, fully appretiate all the advan-
tages, to be derived from their territory becoming an integral part of
the United States; And a Knowledge of the Marked attention which
Congress, during the present Session, And also the Exicutive, have
been pleased to show to every Suggestion which which had for its
object the promotion of their interest will further Unite them with
their fellow Citizens in the bonds of Amity And Confraternity.”—
I have the Honor to be with Much respect Your Most Ob Serv"
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
HONORABLE J C CALHOUN Sect” of War.
[Endorsed] Washington 11 March 1823 Hon. Joseph M. Hernandes
to the S of War relative to opening Communications in the Floridas
& the improvement of the Condition of the Indians &C. Letts.
Refd 442 Referred
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Printing and Distrib. of Laws:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 13th March 1823
SIR. As it is of importance, that such laws, as have been approved
of by Congress, And enacted by the late Legislative Council of the
Territory which I have had the Honor to represent, And such others
as may be enacted by the ensuing Legislators of that territory Should
be published for the information of the Inhabitants of said territory.
I have respectfully to request you will be pleased to Authorize the
Editor of the East Florida Herald (it being the only newspaper pub-
lished in Sº Augustine) to publish the same: If it be within the scope of
your department.”—
* Answered post, p. 651.
* Reply, if any, not found.



646 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I have the Honor to be with much respect Your Most Ob Servº
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
TO THE HONORABLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Sect” of State.
[Addressed] To the Honorable John Quincy Adams Secretary of
State.
[Endorsed] Hernandez Jos: M. Wasn, 13th March 1823 Recd same
day Publication Laws in Florida.
WILLIAM G. D. WORTHINGTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
BALTIMORE March 13th 1823
D* SIR I had the honour to receive last evening y' letter of the 10"
Ins" with its enclosure.”
Presuming from its phraseology that I am not requested to report
thereon directly to the Secretary of State as I did on the 7” Jan’ last
on the claim of Mº Antelme Gay,” I will endeavour to answer it as
fully as I can, immediately to you—
Under the 14* Section of Gen' Jackson's 4* Ordinance I appointed
George Murry Prosecuting Attorney for the County Court of Sº John's
in East Florida—to attend the 1* Court thereof on the 1* Monday of
September 1821 Mr Murry attended that Court, also another
monthly court, to wit, on the first Monday in October—He was about
the 10" of October taken ill with the yellow fever and on getting
convalescent made a visit to Sullivan's Island near Charleston. no
monthly court was held in November—the second Quarterly court
coming on to wit, on the 1* monday in December & M" Murry not
returned I appointed Mr John Rodman Prosecuting Attorney pro-tem.
by my letter of the 1* Dec 1821. He attended that court and the
monthly courts of January & Feby 1822.-and the Quarterly court of
March—He could not have attended any other courts in that capacity,
as I abolished the monthly courts at March & the Judges before the
next Quarterly court considered themselves functi officio, by the act
of Congress, consolidating the two Floridas; altho' I considered them,
ex necessitate, in being, till actually superceded—Mº Rodman thought
So too.—
Now Sir—the 14* Section of the 4* Ordinance aforesaid under
which Mr Murry and Mr Rodman were appointed prosecuting attor-
nies says “who (that is the said attornies) shall receive in each case a
reasonable compensation to be taxed by the court.”—It was their
duty then, if they wished compensation to have applied to the court
and had it taxed in each case—Further, the very last item in the 13*
* NA (SD, Dom. Lets., xx), asking for information relative to the number of
days spent by Rodman while on duty.
* Ante, p. 592.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 647
Section of the 5* Ordinance says—“The Prosecuting Attorney for
every conviction shall receive $5.00—This certainly is higher than
the criminal fees in this state & I suspect as high as those in any of the
states—During the time of M* Murry; * the U States D* Attorney
Mr Bird was there—when Judge Du Val got to Sº Augustine, about
the 20° of Nov" he appointed Mr. Greenbury Gaither District Attor-
ney, held one Court & went off to Washington—I presume Mr Gaither
considered himself District Attorney till Mr Alex Hamilton arrived,
say, till the 15. of May, when Mr Rodman states, he delivered over
the papers to Mr Hamilton—
Now, it appears to me, that the claim of Mr Rodman, stands nearly
on the same ground as that of the whole Posse of Officers appointed
under General Jacksons Ordinances who may have neglected or been
unable to secure their fees or considered them inadequate to their
services—He was residing there as Collector of the Customs of the
U: States—He was also a practising Counsellor & Attorney at Law,
got a good deal of business & it is supposed his Attorneyship was of
no great inconvenience to him—
Yet, I state on his behalf, with great satisfaction, that I found him
an honest, intelligent & faithful prosecuting Attorney and at all times
ready & willing to do his duty whenever & however called upon:
And as our Judicial System was new to the people there, I dare say
he had considerable trouble: But during my stay there the Criminal
Docket was small & not very important; but one trial for Homicide—
For the number of days & the particular items of Mr Rodmans
charge I have no data whatever,
I should think, unless his claim be admitted on his own voucher,
which I suppose can only be done under the rule of the Accounting offi-
cers of the Treasury, if such a rule exist, that he might be allowed from
the 1* of December 1821 to the 15. of May 1822 at the rate of $200–
per Annum, the salary fixed for the District Attorney; this, as addi-
tional compensation to his legal fees & perquisites— -
Mr Rodmans papers are returned—With friendship & respect &"
W. G. D. WORTHINGTON
FONTAINE MAURY Esqr.
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esqr
*-
JUDGE BRACKENRIDGE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
PENSACOLA March 14, 1823
SIR-I do myself the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the 16" of Jan: * enclosing a commission for William Sebree
* Worthington's handwriting starts here,
* Not found.



648 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
as Marshall of the part of the Territory of Florida known as West
Florida: * as soon as he shall arrive the commission shall be delivered
to him on the execution of his bond.
Last autum during the fatal pestilence which prevailed here I
received a letter from Mº Sullivan of the department of State accom-
panying the volumes of the laws of the U. S. the secret journals of
Congress ordered to be printed, the state papers, and the census of
1820: living at the time in the country I sent a letter to the Post
Office addressed to Mº Sullivan, by a man in my employment, but
who was attacked by the yellow fever and died a few days after his
return home, and I never knew until lately that the letter had not
been put in the Post Office. Subsequent to that time I have received
the 7" Vol. of Wheatons report, and a supplement to the census.
There is a subject of great importance to the Goverment on which
I intended to address a particular communication. The quantity
and quality of the live oak and cedar, in the vicinity of the Sea from
this place to Appalachicola I am well convinced is very greatly under-
rated. Among the papers of a Mº Saltenstall upon whose estate I
administered I found an answer to a letter addressed by him to an
eminent ship builder accompanyed with drawings of the different
pieces used in the construction of ships, from which it would appear
that a scheme had been formed to cut this valuable timber on specula-
tion. The information enabled me to form a more correct estimate
of the value of the timber, which is very great. Persons are now
engaged in cutting cedar, and it is not unlikely that unless measures
are taken they will commence upon the live oak. The proximity of
the cedar to ship navigation is a most important consideration.
There is no agent of the United States here, to whom I could give
this information.*
I am with great respect Your most obed S'
H: M. BRACKENRIDGE
HONR. JN" QUINCY ADAMS-
[Endorsed] Brackenridge H. M. Pensacola, 14 March 1823 Recd
9 April U. States' timber in Florida.
DELEGATE HERNANDEZ TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
WASHINGTON CITY 15th March 1823
SIR Not knowing that the Authorities of Sº Augustine, in the
territory which I have had the Honor to represent, have made any
Communication to the Government relative to the Documents taken
* Ante, p. 590.
* No reply found. See post, p. 669.



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 649
possession of from the late Spanish Governor of East Florida, by
virtue of the orders of the then Governor of that territory, General
Andrew Jackson, And believing, that it would be the wish of this
Government, that such of those Documents, as do not relate to the
Soverignty, which Spain had over that territory, nor are in any wise,
of interest to its Inhabitants, Should be return to the Spanish Govern-
ment. I think it important to call the attention of the Government
to this Subject. In which I hope I may be excused, notwithstanding
it is not perticularly connected with the interest of my Constituents.-
I have the Honor to be Most respectfully Your Most Ob Serv'.
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
HONORABLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Sect” of State.
[Addressed] To the Honorable John Quincy Adams Secretary of
State
[Endorsed] Hernandez J. M. Washg. 15 March 1823 Judge Smith &
Mº Antonio Alvarez.-
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA March 16* 1823
HON” JoHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State for the United States
After waiting for some time in New Orleans for a passage to East
Florida or to Charlston—the Steam ship Fulton arrived and I
immideately took my passage—but in three days after her owners
altered her destination and she proceeded to Vera Cruz I therefore
immediately came here finding some factious and discontend persons—
were indeavouring to create dissatisfaction—I have been able to
place things on the proper footing In a few days I shall proceed to
St Augustine, where I hope to put down the discontent that a few
designing and disappointed men have been active in producing—The
President and yourself sir must be well aware that to this Territory
many persons have lately immigrated who are cirtainly not the best
part of our American population These men can only hope to acquire
importance, by creating discontent and producing confusion, and I
hope the President will make the proper allowance for me under these
circumstances,”
With sentiments of high respect &c I am your Obt. Servant
Wm P. DuVal
[Addressed] Hon" John Q Adams Secratary of State Washington
City Fav" by Capt. Jackson
[Endorsed] Duval, Govº Pensacola—16—March 1823 Recd 14
April His Return to florida & affairs there.
* See post, p. 652,



650 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
STEPHEN PLEASONTON TO ALEXANDER SCOTT
[NA:TD, Lighthouse Letters, Bk. 6]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT Fifth Auditor’s Office March 18th 1823.
SIR, Congress having at their last Session passed an Act authorizing
the erection of a Light House at or near the entrance of the Harbour
of Pensacola and appropriated six thousand dollars therefor,” I have
to request your aid in affecting the necessary arrangements prepara-
tory to inviting proposals for a contract.
You will cause an exaination to be made and the most suitable
scite fixed on, designating by proper metes and bounds as much ground
as may be necessary for the accommodation of the establishment (say
two or three acres as a Garden spot for the Keeper. The great con-
sideration in fixing on the scite is the visibility of the Light House,
which will depend on its projection toward the sea and elevation above
the surface of the Water, but the firmness of the ground and freedom
from Quick sands are also matters of consequence.
Great care must therefore be used in making the examination and
reporting evey particular of the nature of the elevation, accessability
of the place, and generally the local advantages and dissadvantages
of the situation, if the ground is private property measures must be
taken for ascertaining the price, unless the proprietor from a desire
to promote such important improvements, should be induced to give
it gratis.
The foregoing information being obtained it will be proper, in form-
ing the plan of the building and deciding on the materials of which it
ought to be built to have it understood what elevation the Light
should have so that no expence shełłld may be incurred in raising it
###ediately unnecessarily.
As soon as you are in possession of the necessary information, be
pleased to communicate it immediately with your opinion of the plan
&c, which may be deemed most advantageous.”
I am &c
(Signed) S. PLEASONTON
Fifth Auditor & Acting Com: of the Revenue
ALEXANDER SCOTT Esq.
* Approved Mar. 3, 1823, 3 STAT. 780.
* Before a permanent lighthouse was erected at Pensacola, a light vessel, the
Aurora Borealis, was transferred thither from the mouth of the Mississippi River
and lighted on June 22, 1823. The following correspondence relative to the
stationing and operation of this light vessel is available: Stephen Pleasonton to
Beverly Chew, Feb. 24, 1823, id. to Alexander Scott, Apr. 30, 1923, Jan. 3, Jan.
7, 1824, id. to the President, Jan. 3, 1824, (NA,TD, Lighthouse Letters, Bk. 6);
Scott to Pleasonton, July 5, July 24, Dec. 1, 1823, Jan. 20, Jan. 22, Feb. 12, May
31, 1824, Oct. 19, 1823 John Gates to Scott, (NA, TD, Lighthouse Supt. Letters).
Correspondence concerning the construction of the permanent lighthouse includes
the following: Pleasonton to Scott, Mar. 18, Dec. 4, 1823, Jan. 10, 1824, id. to



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 651
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE HERNANDEZ
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR, 19 March 1823
HoN: J M HERNANDEZ City of Washington
SIR I have considered your letter of the 11th instant relative to
opening certain roads in Florida;” and have given orders to the com-
manding Officer at S* Augustine, for opening the road between that
Gales & Seaton, Jan. 8, 1824, id. to Henry Dearborn, Jan. 10, Feb. 3, Apr. 2, 1824,
id. to Winslow Lewis, Apr. 2, May 1, May 17, 1824, id. to Archibald W. Hamilton,
May 1, 1824 (NA,TD, Lighthouse Letters, Bk. 6); Scott to Pleasonton, Apr. 1,
1824, Dearborn to Pleasonton, Apr. 14, 1824, Hamilton to Pleasonton, May 25,
June 14, 1824, J. W. Lewis to Pleasonton, May 10, 1824 (NA, TD, Lighthouse
Supt. Letters). A number of proposals for constructing the lighthouse dated
early in 1824 are to be found in NA(TD, Bids, Contracts and Proposals). The
successful bidder was Winslow Lewis, of Boston, Mass., with whom a contract
was made on Apr. 13, 1824, which is recorded in NA(TD, Lighthouse Deeds and
Contracts, Bk. D).
Steps were taken during 1823 to reconstruct an old Spanish lookout house on
St. Anastasia Island at St. Augustine for use as a lighthouse. Correspondence
relative thereto includes the following: Pleasonton to John Rodman, Mar. 13,
Apr. 25, 1823, Jan. 22, Mar. 11, May 1, 1824, Pleasonton to the Secretary of the
Treasury, Mar. 11, 1824, id. to Winslow Lewis, Nov. 10, 1823, id. to the President,
Mar. 12, 1824 (NA, TD, Lighthouse Letters, Bk. 6); Rodman to Pleasonton, Apr.
5, Apr. 7, 1823 (NA, TD, Lighthouse Clippings); id. to id., July 7, Aug. 12, 1823,
Jan. 6, Feb. 23, Mar. 16, Mar. 30, Apr. 5, May 18, 1824 (NA, TD, Lighthouse
Supt. Lets.). The contract for the lighthouse was made with Elias Wallen, of St.
Augustine, Aug. 9, 1823 (NA, TD, Lighthouse Deeds and Contracts, Bk. D).
Applications for the appointment as keeper were received from John Andreu, a
pilot and resident of St. Augustine, to the President, Feb. 23, 1824; William Brown,
of the same place, who had served as keeper of the Spanish signal tower there, to
the President, Apr. 13, June 17, 1824 (postmarked); and Henry Ayers, a sergeant
in the 4th Artillery, Feb. 22, 1824, who was recommended in a letter from R.
Weightman to John Rodman, June 23, 1823, and an unaddressed letter from Edgar
Macon, Feb. 23, 1824 (NA, TD, Lighthouse Keepers' Applications). Pleasonton
informed Rodman, Mar. 16, 1824 of the appointment of Andreu, (NA, TD,
Lighthouse Letters, Bk. 6).
Pursuant to an act of Congress approved May 26, 1824 (4 STAT. 61), prepara-
tions were initiated during the first half of 1824 for the construction of lighthouses
at Sambo keys, Careysfort Reef, Dry Tortugas, and Cape Florida. Relevant
correspondence includes the following: Pleasonton to the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, Apr. 5, 1824, id. to Morgan Davis, May 3, 1824, id. to Gales and Seaton,
June 5, 1824, id. to Henry Dearborn, June 14, 1824, (NA, TD, Lighthouse Letters,
Bk. 6). Proposals dated June 24, 1824 from Reuben Loring and Elias Wallen,
both of St. Augustine, are in NA(TD, Bids, Contracts and Proposals). Morgan
Davis applied to the Secretary of the Treasury, May 21, 1824 for the appoint-
ment as keeper at Cape Florida (NA, TD, Early Lighthouse Corres.), and to
Pleasonton, June 13, 1824 (NA, TD, Lighthouse Keepers' Applications). John
Rodman recommended to the Secretary of the Treasury, June 25, 1824, the
appointment of John Whalton at Careysfort Reef (loc. cit.). See post, XXIII, July
1, 1824.
* Ante, p. 642.



652 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
place and Sº Mary's, a copy of which is enclosed.” No measures will
be taken relative to the road farther South until that between Sº
Marys and Sº Augustine is completed and the expense ascertained;
when, if it can be done with propriety, the necessary orders will be given.
It is intended to have the country between Sº Augustin and Pensa-
cola explored this Summer, if it can be done conveniently, and a plan
of the route and estimate of the expense made out, which may enable
you I hope to get the consent of Congress at the next Session for
opening a road between these places.”
In relation to the Indians, Commissioners will be immediately
appointed * with directions to concentrate them on the Country
South of Charlotte Harbor, if there be a sufficient quantity of good
lands in that part of the Peninsular; if not, to take in a part of the
Country between that and Tampa Bay. They will be instructed to
hold a treaty as early as practicable.”
I have &c. J. C. C.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters.:ALS)
PENSACOLA March 22** 1823
HONLE JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State for the United States
I had the honour of writing to you some five or six days since by
Capt. Jackson “–I have now the pleasure of informing you that all
discontent has subsided in this quarter, and that I shall leave Pensacola
in a few days for St. Augustine where you will please to transmit
any communication intended for me, from your department Maj.
Wright of the army can give you any information as to the Political,
state of our affairs in this quarter if you think proper to converse
with him I am much gratifyd that I came to Pensacola before I went
on to St Augustine, as I have at once put down the slanders and abuse
which during my absence was circulated to my prejudice, It is a
difficut matter to give satisfaction to such a mingled Population as
inhabit this Territory but I am not without hope, that the honest
and thinking part of our citizens will give me their support—more than
this I do not expect. Joseph M. White Esq has since the death of the
United States Attorney Mr Harrison—discharged the duties of that
office to the satisfaction of Judge Breckenridge Mr. White has re-
quested me write to you on the subject of his claim for these services—
I promised to do—but informed him that the cirtificate of Judge*
* Not found.
*I See post, p. 653.
** Post, p. 659.
* See post, p. 654.
* Ante, p, 649.
** Brackenridge?



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 653
would have much more weight with your department, approving his
account, than any thing coming from me
With sentiments of high respect and esteem I am your Obt. Sevt.
Wm. P. DuVal
[Addressed] Honl" John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City Favº by Mjr Wright
[Endorsed] Duval W* P. Pensacola 22 March 1823 Recd 15 April
Affairs of Florida
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA W. F. March 25* 1823.−
GENERAL, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letters of 27* January * & 10" February last “–they arrived a few
days previous to my return from Baton Rouge.—
The State of my health will not allow of my surveying a road, at
present, from this place to the Barrancas, but from a previous knowl-
edge of the ground over which it ought to pass, and from information
received from Officers since my receipt of your order, I believe I can
make as correct a report & estimate as if I had actually surveyed it.
There are now two routes which are used; the first along the Beach,
crossing the two Bayous, which intervene between this & the Bar-
rancas, at their mouths; these Bayous however can only be crossed on
horseback when the tide is low and even then are dangerous—the
distance is about seven miles. The other is a waggon road, fifteen
miles around, and heads the “Big Bayou;” it requires a bridge to be
built over the “Little Bayou.”—
The new road proposed can be opened nearly in a direct line to the
Barrancas, say in eight miles distance, at no expense excepting the
per diem to the soldiers employed on it. The road itself will require
but a few days labor to cut it out, as it will pass wholly through level
Pine Barren; but there will be a Bridge to construct at each of the
Two Bayous, & these bridges will consume most of the time & expense.
I estimate the entire expense of opening this Road at at $250.-
My health has improved considerably within a few weeks & unless
some unfavorable change takes place I do not contemplate leaving
Pensacola, even if my application for a furlough is granted; it will
be however a considerable time, in any case, before I shall be able
to relieve Capt. Thornton entirely in the duties of Quarter Master.”—
* Ante, p. 605.
* NA (WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 4).
* Answered post, p. 676.



654 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
I am Sir, With perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Servº
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q Master.
BRIG: GENERAL THOMAS S. JESUP Q' Mº U. S. Army Washington
D. C.
[Endorsed] Cap' Dan' E Burch Pensacola 25* March 1823 Road
from Pensacola to Barrancas with estimate—April 24*
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ACTING GOVERNOR WALTON
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 26 March 1823
COLONEL GEORGE WALTON SecY & act” Gov' of Florida Pensacola.
SIR, Your letters of the 9” & 31st January & 20° of February
were duly received;” but owing to the great press of business in the
Department they have unavoidably remained unanswered untill this
time.
A bill which you have drawn on this Department for $480 88/100
to enable you to pay Richards the Interpreter, and other Small ex-
penses in the Indian Department will be paid when presented.
I am happy to learn that Col” Humphries the Indian Agent has at
length arrived, and entered on his duties.” The instructions which
you have given him, for his government are judicious and are approved
by this Department.”
I have allowed the account of Major Wright, and the amount will
be passed to your Credit on the Books of the 2nd Auditor.
The estimate for the Road between Pensacola and S*Augustine was
immediately on its receipt transmitted to M' Hernandez in order that
he might take the necessary steps to procure an appropriation of the
amount by Congress; and a bill for the purpose was passed by the
House of Representatives, and sent to the Senate; but owing to the
late period of the Session at which the subject was taken up, it was
not finally acted upon.
In relation to compensation for your Services as acting Superintend-
ent of Indian Affairs, in the absence of the Governor, I have to State
that the law affixes no compensation for the services required of the
territorial Governors as Superintendents of Indian Affairs of which
you appear to be aware; but it has been usual to allow the expenses
which they may incur in the performance of such duty, for clerk hire,
office Rent &" upon an account rendered for the same, certified by
the Governor, in cases where no specific allowance for that purpose
has been made. This rule is considered equally applicable to the
Secretaries of the Territories, while acting as Superintendents of
* Ante, pp. 597, 606, 626.
* Ante, p. 598.
* Ante, p. 601.



FLORI D A T E R R I TO R Y 655
Indian Affairs in the absence of the Governors; and if you will render
an account for your expenses, for Clerk, Office rent &" certified by
yourself, it will, if deemed reasonable, be allowed.
I have examined the estimate which you forwarded, and it would
gratify me to admit it for the whole amount, as I have no doubt a
due regard has been had to economy in making it out; but the very
limited appropriation for the Indian Department renders it necessary
to confine the expenses to as small an amount as possible, without
absolute injury to the public interest; and I am therefore constrained
to restrict the expenses of the Indian Department in Florida, for
the present year, to the Sum of $3,500—to wit—
Pay of Indian Agent . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1500,00
Pay of Sub Agent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500,00
Presents to Indians . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500,00
Contingences, which includes all other Expenses . . 1000,00
$3,500,00
A remittance of half this sum is now made to you for the expenses of
the two first quarters of the year; and I have no doubt every care will
be taken to make it adequate to the object.
The balance will be remitted whenever the Governor or yourself
may desire it.”
I have the &c &c J. C. C.
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THOMAS H. PENN
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book B]
GENERAL POST OFFICE 24 April 1823
THO" H PENN Esq P M St Augustine (E Flor)
SIR I wish you to state to this department, whether it is now prac-
tible to send the mail between your office and St Marys (via Cowford
&c & with as much certainty and Safety as by the present route, The
Hon" Mr Fernandez " is desirous to have this change made as soon as
practicable, and your early reply is desired “”
R J MEIGS
* See post, p. 659.
** Presumably Joseph M. Hernandez.
* See post, p. 767.



656 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
COMMISSION OF DAVIS FLOYD,” WILLIAM W. BLAIR,”
AND ALEXANDER HAMILTON AS LAND COMMISSION-
ERS (EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms. Pres., etc.]
[April 3, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of an Act of Congress passed on the
third of last month, entitled “An Act amending and supplementary
to, the act “for ascertaining claims and titles to land in the territory
of Florida,” and to provide for the survey and disposal of the public
lands in Florida,” and reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity, Ability and Diligence of Davis Floyd, William W. Blair,
and Alexander Hamilton,” I have appointed them and each of them
Commissioners for the purposes expressed in the said act, with all the
powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining.
This Commission to continue in force until the end of the next Session
of the Senate of the United States and no longer.”
In Testimony whereof I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Wash-
ington the Third day of April A. D. 1823; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Seventh.*
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
* Floyd had been involved in the Burr Conspiracy. He had also been a pre-
siding justice of one of the judicial circuits in Indiana and long a resident of that
State (cf. Terr. Papers, Ind., VII, VIII, passim), and had been recommended to the
Secretary of State by Gov. William Hendricks of the same State, Jan. 7, 1823
(NA, SD, Applications). Floyd reached St. Augustine in July, but in the next
month he set out for Indiana to bring his family to Florida (St Augustine E. Fla.
Herald, July 19, Aug. 16, 1823).
* Blair was a native of Kentucky where he had practiced law and been a judge
of one of the state courts. He accepted the appointment in Florida in the hope
that the genial climate would improve his health, but he died after serving for
only one year (obituary, ibid., July 31, 1824).
55 3 STAT. 709–718.
* Hamilton had applied to the President on Mar. 12, 1823, while in Washington
(NA, SD, Applications).
* A new commission was issued on Dec. 9, 1823 to Floyd and Blair (post, p.
805), but no new one for Hamilton has been found.
* The progress made by the Board of Land Commissioners for E. Fla. during
1823 and part of 1824 in settling land claims is revealed in its reports and ac-
companying documents published in House Ex. Doc. 156, 18 Cong., 1 sess. and in
A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III, 725–863. The original documents are in NA (GLO,
E. Fla. Reports Acts of 8 May 1822 and 3 March 1823, Vol. 36). Copies of these
documents are in NA (HR, Orig. Reports, TD, 18 Cong., 1 sess.).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 657
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO JOHN RODMAN
[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 5 Apl. 1823
JOHN RODMAN Esquire Collector of the Customs S* Augustine
SIR Conformably to your Suggestion in your Letter of the 3° of
December last,” M* Reynold and Mº Alvarez are authorized by the
Letter, herewith enclosed, and which you will please deliver to them,
to examine the eight Boxes of Documents and Archives, mentioned
by you; to select from them, those which relate to the property and
Sovereignty of East & West Florida, to be retained, and to cause the
remainder to be repacked, to be returned to the Spanish Commanding
Office at the Havanna.
M* Hernandez before leaving this place, intimated his intention of
visiting the Havanna soon after his retun home, and I hope the ex-
amination and selection may be completed, in time to forward by
him the Documents to be returned.”
I am with much Respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
[Enclosure]
The Secretary of State to William Reynolds and Antonio Alvarez
Department of State WASHINGTON 5 Ap' 1823
REYNOLDS AND ANTONIO ALWAREZ Esq.” St. Augustine. Florida.
SIRS You are hereby authorized to examine the contents of eight
Boxes of Archives, which were taken by direction of M* Worthington,
while acting as Governor of East Florida, from the House of the late
Spanish Governor Coppinger, and which are now under the charge
of John Rodman Esquire, Collector of the Port of Sº Augustine; “to
select from them for preservation among the Archives of the Terri-
tory,” all Archives and Documents which relates directly to the
property and Sovereignty, of the Provinces of East & West Florida,
to take an Inventory of the same, and also of all other Documents,
and papers, found among them; and carefully to cause to be packed
up all those of the latter discription, to be returned to the Governor
or Captain General of the Island of Cuba, or to his order. M'
Reynolds as keeper of the Archives appointed by Governor Duval,
will then take in charge the Documents to be retained, together with
the inventory of those to be restored to the officer of the Spanish
Government—The Documents themselves to be returned may be
* Ante, p. 574.
* Reynolds and Alvarez were paid the sum of $900, respectively, for the serv-
ice in question for the period May 9–Nov. 9, 1823 (NA, GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct.
1418, 1824). For his service as clerk to the commission, John A. Cafeda was paid
the sum of $135 (loc. cit.). See post, p. 667.
801867–57–43



658 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
delivered to M* Hernandez for that purpose, taking his receipt and
promise to have them so delivered, unless before this examination
and Selection shall be completed, he shall embarked for the Havanna.
In which case they may be retained by Mº Reynolds, until he shall
receive further directions concerning them from this Department.
For this service you will each receive five dollars per day; and
such reasonable charges, as may be occasioned by the taking of the
Inventory, and the packing for transportation the Documents to be
returned.
I am with much Respect, Gentlemen, your very humble and obe-
dient Servant
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
APPOINTMENTS OF FEDERAL OFFICIALS IN THE TERRI-
TORY
[LC:St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, April 5, 1823]
[April 5, 1823]
Appointments for Florida.
John Rodman, to be Collector of the Customs, and Inspector of
the Revenue, for the District and Port of St. Augustine.”
Charles Jenkins, to be Collector of the Customs, and Inspector of
the Revenue, for the district of Apalachicola.”
A. W. Hamilton, to be Surveyor and Inspector of the Revenue for
the Port of Pensacola.”
Frederick Jenkins, to be Surveyor and Inspector of the Revenue
for the Port of St. Johns.”
Alexander Scott, to be Collector of the District of Pensacola.”
A. B Lindsley, to be Surveyor and Inspector of the Revenue for
the Port of St. Marks, in East Florida.”
Joel Yancey, Collector at Key West.”
GENERAL ORDERS, FIRST BRIGADE OF MILITIA
[LC:Pensacola, The Floridian, Apr. 12, 1823]
Adjutant General's Office, Pensacola, April 5th, 1823.
GENERAL ORDER. The persons who have been appointed and com-
missioned field officers in this Territory are hereby required to take
the oath of office, in conformity to the provisions of an act of the
oi Nominated Feb. 25, 1823, confirmed Feb. 28 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 336,
338).
* Nominated Feb. 23, confirmed Feb. 28 (ibid.).
* Nominated Feb. 28, 1823, confirmed Mar. 3 (ibid., pp. 340, 341).
tº Nominated Feb. 28, 1823, confirmed Mar. 3 (ibid.).
* Nominated Feb. 28, 1823, confirmed Mar. 3 (ibid.).
60 Nominated Mar. 1, 1823, confirmed Mar. 3 (ibid.).
97 Nominated Dec. 9, 1822, confirmed Dec. 12 (ibid., pp. 312, 313).



FLORIDA. T E R R IT OR Y 659
Legislative Council for the organization of the Militia of the Terri-
tory of Florida; * and to nominate the company officers; to form
their respective districts select the parade grounds, and make return
thereof to my office previous to the 15th day of May next.—All per-
sons who fail or neglect to qualify to their commissions will be con-
sidered as having declined them, and others will be appointed to fill
their vacancies. The officers in both brigades are further required to
proceed as early as practicable thereafter, to the organization of the
Militia under the penalties imposed by law.”
By order of the Governor,
Jos. M. White, Adjt. Geml. F. Militia.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES GADSDEN AND
BERNARDO SEGUI
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E 10)
DEPMT of WAR 7 April 1823.
CoLONEL JAMES GADSDEN & BENARD SEGUI, esq Commissioners &c. &c
GENTLEMEN, I have the honor to enclose you a Commission from
the President of the United States, appointing you Commissioners to
hold a Treaty with the Florida Indians.”
The object to be accomplished by the proposed treaty, is the con-
centration of all the Florida Indians at some suitable point within
that Territory, and the Country South of Charlotte Harbor and the
River of that name which empties into it, has been designated for the
* An act approved Sept. 13, 1822, made all free, white, male inhabitants of
the territory liable for militia duty. Two brigades were to be formed under
brigadier generals; the first brigade was to be composed of the counties of Escam-
bia and Jackson in W. Fla., and the second of the counties of St. Johns and
Duval in E. Fla. (Fla., Acts, 1822, pp. 105–124).
* See post, p. 665.
" Another copy is in NA (HF, Orig. Messages Pres., 19 Cong., 2 sess.), printed,
H. Rept. 74, 19 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 5-6, and A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 431.
* Gadsden accepted Apr. 9, 1823, from Washington (NA, OIA, SW Lets.
Recd.). Segui accepted at St. Augustine, May 5, 1823 (NA, WD, SW Lets.
Recd., S 548)). DuVal was advised of the appointments in question on Apr. 14,
and of the fact that had the President known of DuVal's return to Florida an
appointment to the commission would also have been given him (NA, OIA,
SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E). He was directed on May 29 (loc. cit.) to assistin assembly-
ing the Indians, and on the same date the Secretary of War instructed Segui to
inform the Governor of the time and place of meeting with the Indians (loc. cit.),
and on June 30 DuVal was instructed to associate himself with the commissioners
in conferring with the Indians (loc. cit., printed, A. S. P., op. cit., p. 440). He
accepted the appointment July 15 (loc. cit., printed ibid., p. 440). See also
Gadsden to Segui, Apr. 9, 1823 (printed ibid., p. 432), favoring St. Augustine
as a meeting place for the Indian conference, and Segui's reply (ibid.) indicating
an agreement. -



660 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
purpose. Your efforts will therefore be directed to the attainment of
this object. Should there not be a sufficiency of good lands for the
accommodation of the Indians in that part of the Peninsular desig-
nated, you are authorised to fix the boundary north of Charlotte
Harbor and River, so as to take in as much of the Country between
them and Tampa Bay, as in your judgment may be necessary to give
the Indians enough of good lands, and sufficient space considering their
habits of life, leaving the conditions to your sound discretion. As
it is desirable that the Treaty should be held as soon as practicable,
you will as early as convenient make your arrangements for that
purpose. Confiding in your prudence that the treaty will be held
with the least possible expense, it is deemed unnecessary to give you
any particular instructions on that point. The principal article of
expense will probably be the issue of provisions to the Indians while
treating with them. To avoid the delay which a correspondence
between the Commissioners for the purpose would occasion M*
Segui, being most convenient to the Indians will fix on the time and
place of holding the treaty after consulting Mº Hernandez the Dele-
gate from the Territory, and notify Col: Gadsden the other Commis-
sioner, thereof. Mr Segui will also ascertain the quantity of provisions
that will probably be required, and issue his requisitions for the
Same on the Commissary of Subsistence at St Marks if the treaty
should be held at that place or Contiguous to it, or on the Commissary
at S*Augustine if it should be held there or near it who will be ordered
to obey such requisitions, and charge the amount to the Indian
Department. The enclosed circular will be complied with in issuing
the provisions, to which, as there has in some instances been great
irregularity, I particularly call your attention.
The Indian Agent Col: Gad Humphries who is stationed for the
present, at S*Marks is instructed to obey your orders on all points
connected with the proposed treaty, and to prepare the Indians to
meet the Commissioners at the time & place which may be fixed upon
for holding it.”
For the funds which you may find necessary to defray the expenses
attending the negociation, you will draw on this Department.
Your compensation will be at the rate of $8 and that of the Secre-
tary to the Commission, (whom you are authorised to appoint) at the
rate of $5—per diem, for the time actually engaged. The payment
will be made on your Certificate of honor, specifying the time that you
and the Secretary have been actually engaged. Your certificate in like
manner will be a necessary voucher for the presents, should there
be any, distributed under your authority.”
* An extract of the above instructions was sent to Humphreys on Apr. 10, 1823
(NA, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
* See post, p. 670.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 661
The treaty when made will be forwarded to this Department.”
I have &c J. C. C.
GENERAL ORDERS, FIRST BRIGADE OF MILITIA
[LC:Pensacola, The Floridian, Apr. 12, 1823]
First Brigade of Florida. Head Quarters,
Pensacola, 8th April 1823.
GENERAL ORDERS. Benjamin D. Wright, is hereby appointed
Inspector, and F. H. Nisbet, Quarter Master of the 1st Brigade of
Florida, they will be obeyed and respected accordingly, by the
officers and Soldiers of the Brigade.”
R. K. Call, Geml. 1st Brigade of Florida.
JOHN GARNIER TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:GAO, Diplomatic and Consular Acct. No. 1357 (1823):ALS)
PENSACOLA April 8* 1823.
SIR, I have received the letter you have done me the favor of
addressing me the 10” ult:”—the one of which it incloses a copy,
never reached me—
in conformity with your directions, obligingly given, I inclose a
new Statement of my claim for Services rendered, as Judge of the
County Court of Escambia; accompanied with my Commission & a
certificate from the Clerk, Stating the time at which these services
have ceased—I established the compensation at $5. p day in con-
sequence of Judges Shannon, and Gaither of Sº John having been
allowed the same; all which I hope, will prove satisfactory to the
Secretary of State—in that event I shall consider myself under great
obligation to you to forward me a check as early as possible—
I am with much & Sincere respect Sir, Your most obedº Serv"
JN° GARNIER
P. S. Have the goodness to address the check for the am" allowed
me to M' G. W. Barkley, holder of the draft which is expected
back.--
FONTAIN MAURY Esquire. Washington.
[Addressed] Fountain Maury, Esquire Agent Depar" of State,
Washington.
* See post, pp. 681, 694, 778.
* See post, p. 665
* Ante, p. 642.



662 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Enclosure:DS]
Commission of George Garnier as Justice of Escambia County
[July 24, 1821]
By Major General Andrew Jackson, Governor of the Provinces of
the Floridas, exercising the powers of the Captain General & of the
Intendant of the Island of Cuba over the same, and of the Governors
of said Provinces respectively.
To all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the
patriotism, abilities, and integrity of John Garnier Esq (Nº. 2
associate) I do hereby nominate and appoint him to the office of a
Justice of the Peace, and to that of one of the Justices of the Quorum,
in and for the County of Escambia, with power to hold the County
Court of said County jointly with his associates, and to take
cognizance of all such cases, and to perform all such acts, as are
prescribed by law, to Have and to Hold the said offices during the
pleasure of the Governor.
Given at Pensacola, this 24* day of July, 1821.
ANDREW JACKSON Govt of the Floridas &c. &c. &c
By the Governor, R. K. Call, Act. Secy of W Florid
|Endorsed] Commission. John Garnier (Nº 2 associate) Justice
of the Peace & Quorum. John Garnier Esq" being the oldest in com-
mission, & E. B. Foster having been appointed an associate Justice
in the room of Col" Barnett who refused to accept—John Garniers
Commission will be No (1 associate) & E. B. Fosters Esqº remain
(N° 2 associate) ANDREw JACKSON Gov' of the Floridas &c &c
[Enclosure:DS]
Certificate of John Miller
I certify that John Garnier Esq., 1* Associate Judge of the Court
of Escambia performed the duties of his office from the time of
his appointment to the 1” monday of July 1822 when the said court
adjourned to August following soon after which, it was superceded
Pensacola April 8, 1823.
JNO MILLER
[Enclosure:DS]
Certificate of Acting Governor Walton
Office of the Secretary of Florida Pensacola April 8* 1823.
I do hereby certify that it appears from the records of my office
that a Commission was issued to John Miller, on the twenty first



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 663
day of July 1821, appointing him to the office of Clerk of the County
of Escambia. " -
GEO WALTON
Secy & Act Gov: of The Territory of Florida
SECRETARY WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
PENSACOLA April 10° 1823–
SIR, Herewith enclosed you will receive a statement of my account
with the United States.” You will observe that I am debited with
the receipt of $5000. and have credited myself with the several items
of expenditure in numerical order. There are several of these last
which require some explanation to be clearly and distinctly under-
stood—
The accounts of Messrs Mitchell & Brownejohn for copying the
acts of the Legislative Council are cases of this description. These
two gentlemen were employed in the first instance to perform this
labour in order that the printer might be furnished with a copy in
pursuance of an Act of the Legislative Council. When completed it
was considered expedient by the Governor that it should be for-
warded as speedily as practicable to St. Augustine. The adoption of
this step created the necessity of having an additional copy executed
to secure the object for which it was originally intended. This will
satisfactorily explain to you the second account of Mº Brownejohn,
who performed the task in conformity to the directions of Governor
Duval.
The sum of $300 paid Col. de la Rua, for the rent of a building
appropriated to the purposes of a Court house, was in my estimation
sanctioned by justice & propriety. It had been rented by the Clerk
of the County Court during the administration of Gen' Jackson, and
devoted to the use of the public for twelve months; under such cir-
cumstances I had no hesitation in believing the account a just one
and liquidated it accordingly—Upon submitting it to the Governor
it appeared to meet his decided approbation as I hope it will that of
your Department—
Relative to the expenditure for printing the acts of the Legisla-
tive Council you will observe that there has been paid the sum of
$1238.12%. This account has been settled in conformity with esti-
mates prepared by the printers of Mobile & New Orleans which was
to be adopted as the rule of settlement in the original contract. These
" Present also as enclosures are Garnier's receipt, dated Sept. 2, 1823, for the
sum of $475, and D. Shannon's certificate of Aug. 6, 1821, that Garnier had taken
the oath of office before him.
* Not present.



664 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
estimates were not presented in a shape to be satisfactory and the
printer insists that they are 33% per cent below the regular prices
charged in the offices at the Eastward and greatly below those which
have heretofore been established in Mobile & New Orleans. He pro-
poses obtaining estimates more in detail than those received & if it
can be satisfactorily ascertained that the latter were too low I have
given assurances that the balance shall be promptly discharged. I
felt myself authorised to give this pledge from a confident belief,
that it was not desirable to any department of the government to
obtain individual services without making adequate compensation
The bill of $91. for printing the ordinances &c of Gov. Jackson,
although presented at this late period I have no doubt is perfectly
just and should have been paid. I am myself conusant of the print-
ing having been done by Nicholas & Tunstall in obedience to an order
of Gov. Jackson and I have the positive declaration of Maj. Nicholas
that the account has been inadvertently overlooked in former settle-
ments. In this statement I have no hesitation in reposing the utmost
confidence, and flatter myself that the appropriation to meet this
account will meet your approbation—
Upon the item embracing the rent for an office, I have to remark,
that it has always been kept in the house occupied by my family.
During the months of July, August & September rents continued very
high, and all the publick buildings were in the occupation of the
officers and soldiers of the U. States Army, In consequence of the
prevalence of disease in Pensacola my office was removed to & re-
mained in the Country during the months of October & November.
For this latter period no expense was incurred; from the first of De-
cember until this time I have been under the necessity of renting the
same house for the above purpose but upon much more moderate
terms. Upon my return to this place I found that the Government
house which had been delivered over to the civil authority was in
such a state of dilapidation as to be unfit either for an office or resi-
dence for my family; and there was unfortunately no other building
surrendered that could be appropriated to those purposes. In this
condition of affairs I had no discretion. The Government house was
turned over to the different courts of Justice where they have since
held their sessions and this was the only useful manner in which it
could possibly be employed "
With sentiments of the highest consideration I have the honor to
be Yr. Mo. obed" serv"
GEO. WALTON Secretary of Florida
HON. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Walton George Pensacola 10 Ap" 1823 Recd 4 May
* No reply found.



FLOR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 665
GENERAL ORDER, FIRST BRIGADE OF MILITIA
[LC:Pensacola, The Floridian, Apr. 12, 1823]
First Brigade of Florida. Head Quarters,
Pensacola, April 10, 1823.
GENERAL, ORDER.
The officers of the First Brigade of Florida, are required without
delay to take the oath prescribed by law; and enter on the duties of
their respective offices. The field and platoon officers will proceed
to organize their respective regiments, battalions, and companies,
and designate their several boundaries. The field officers will appoint
the time and place for the muster and inspection of their regiments
and battalions—they will cause the returns of strength, arms, and
equipage, required by the act of the Territorial Council to be promptly
furnished the Inspector of the Brigade, who is required to report
accordingly to the office of the Adjutant General. Strict attention
will be paid to the discipline and equipage of the Brigade—and the
commanding general flatters himself, that every officer and soldier
will be emulous to introduce and promote that order and subordina-
nation, so essential to their respectability in peace, and their efficiency
in war. He relies with confidence on the zeal and patriotism of the
Brigade, and feels well assured that its improvement in discipline will
realize his highest expectations.”
R. K. Call Geml 1st Brigade of Florida.
SECRETARY WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA, April 14* 1823.
SIR; In the course of a few days, I shall set out on my journey to St.
Augustine, where the next Legislative Council is to be convened. I
had intended to travil in company with Governor Duval, who left
this about two weeks since for East Florida; but have been unavoid-
ably detained by my own illness and that of my family. At present,
we are all upon the recovery; and I am in hopes to be enabled to take
my departure from Pensacola on Saturday next *—
The serious inconvenience and expence to which I am exposed, in
consequence of the seat of Government for this Territory not being
permanently located, will be readily suggested upon the least reflec-
tion. I am compelled to be some time seperated, at a considerable
distance from my family, and to meet disbursements which will almost
absorb the whole of my salary. It is very desirable that these difficul-
ties should be obviated as speedily as practicable, and relieve me, as
* See post, p. 721.
* See post, p. 675.



666 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
well as others from the embarrassments which they have created.
Were the seat of Government permanently fixed, either in East or
West Florida, or at a central position, equally convenient to both
sections of Territory, it would be perfectly immaterial, so far as my
individual interests are involved; but until this is accomplished, I
cannot remove my family from Pensacola, with any confident assur-
ances that they will remain for more than one year in a different
portion of Florida.-
The 3" section of the “Act for the establishment of a Territorial
Government in Florida,” makes it the duty of the secretary to transmit
authentic copies of the proceedings of the Governor in his Executive
capacity, every six months, to the President of the United States.”
Except in those cases where civil and military appointments have been
made within the Territory, all the acts of the Governor in his Execu-
tive character, have consisted of communications forwarded by him-
self to the Department of State. The proceedings in both cases have
been recorded as prescribed by the act; but it never suggested itself
to me, that it was necessary in either, to transmit copies to the Presi-
dent of the United States. If in this, I have omited to observe any
thing enjoined by the law, it would be gratifying to me to be advised
of the fact, as I am solicitous to discharge with exactness and fidelity,
the duties imposed by my appointment. Any information which
you would be so good as to impart upon this subject, would be grate-
fully received.—
I have the honor to be, With sentiments of the highest consideration
Yr. Mo. Obt. Ser"—
GEO. WALTON Secy of Florida
HON. J. Q. ADAMS, Secy of State.
[Endorsed] Walton George Pensacola, 14 April 1823 Recd 11th May.
affairs of the govt. of florida.
WATERS SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Sº AUGUSTINE E F. 15. Ap' 1823
SIR, The Hon' J. L. Smith, Judge of the Superior Court for East
Florida, has directed that all process issuing from that Court in the
name and by authority of the Territory, shall be directed to, and served
by the Sheriffs of the Counties of Sº Johns and Duval, as the case may
be; those two counties composing the District over which his court has
jurisdiction—
As this decision deprives me as Marshal of the principal part of my
duties and emoluments, and places me in rather an embarrassing situ-
ation as to the few duties left me to perform; there being by this ar-
* Ante, p. 391.



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 667
rangement, attached to the same Court, three distinct executive
officers; I take the liberty Sir, of applying to you for instructions on
the following points.
First Is the whole of the contingent expences of the Court; such as
preparing a room, books and stationary for the Court & clerk, to be
included in the Marshals account—
Second Is the expence of keeping and maintaining prisoners in the
custody of the Sheriffs of S" Johns and Duval Counties, to be included
in the Marshals account—
The Gentlemen of the Bar here, are decidedly of opinion, that the
Marshal is the only executive Officer legally authorised to act in the
Superior Court, organized under the authority of the United States—
With much respect I beg leave to enquire if it comes within your
province to give directions as to the duties which I have to perform
as Marshal: If it does not; whether the case can with propriety be
referred to the Attorney General of the United States.
I cannot but think, that by the enclosed order,” I am illegally de-
prived of the rights and profits of the Office, which the President of
the United States has been pleased to honour me with.*
With due consideration and respect, I remain Your obed" Serv"
WATERS SMITH U. S. Marsh' E. Florida
Hon"JOHN Q. ADAMS Secty State
[Addressed] Hon' John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] St Augustine Apl. 15 free
[Endorsed] Smith Waters, St Augustine, 15th April 1823. Recd 1
May. Judicial Process.
JOHN R. BELL TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Rhinebeck, N. Y. April 20th 1823.
SIR, Colonel Forbes, Edmund Law & myself were the commis-
sioners regularly appointed by Act" Gov" Worthington in 1821 at S*
Augustine for taking possession of the Spanish archives and documents
appertaining to the Territory of Florida, which had been retained by
the Spanish Authorities at the time of Cession.*
The duties assigned us under that commission was duly & I believe
Satisfactorially performed: The investigation of a great mass of papers
was laborious & tedious, at a time too, when we were surrounded by
the ravages of the yellow fever, which carried off one of the Clerks
(Mº Bird) during the examination.
* Not present.
* Answered post, p. 743.
* See ante, p. 592.



668 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
It was not until sometime in the month of Oct" or Nov 1822 that we
made our joint account against the United States for these services;
this was transmitted with a power of Att’ to John Law Esq at Wash-
ington to present for payment & to receive the amount from the Gov-
ernment on our account.
Soon after, we were informed of the lamented death of John Law.
His brother proceeded to Washington, by him Colonel F. & myself
entrusted our accounts with a power of Atty, as before to John Law.
Since then I have not heard from M* Edmund Law, or, the fate of my
charge against the Government for these services so faithfully rendered.
I have understood, that the Colonel was at Washington last winter
and that he probably received for himself the amount charged for his
services on the occasion in question. William Reynolds Esqº another
of the Secretaries to the Commission informs me, that his charge for
services in examining the documents has been allowed and paid.
The object of this communication is, to inquire if the charge made
by me with the other commissioners Mess” Forbes & Law, has been
allowed and paid on either of the powers of Att’ to John & Edmund
Law—If not, are there any objections to the claim, if so, what are
they? Indeed, any information you will please to communicate that
will exhibit the state of the claim & the prospect of its being allowed
in my case, who was President of the commission. If informed, your
advice on the subject, & how I should state it correctly.
I have rendered in this case, as well as in others, important services
to the United States while in Florida, and I have suffered persecution—
But I trust I shall be paid as others have been for services rendered
in that country & that too without cause of complaint.
The letters of Gov" Worthington on the subject of seizing the
Archives & documents is in evidence of the approbation of my con-
duct—and if the approbation of Gen' Jackson also was necessary,
that can be obtained—In the hope of hearing from you soon addressed
to me at this place"
I remain, Sir, your most Ob" Ser'
JN" R. BELL Cap' 4* Arty
FONTAINE MAURY Esq." Agent for paying Florida claims Washington
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq." State department (Agent for
paying Florida claims) Washington
[Endorsed] John R Bell Rhinebeck N Y. 20 Apl. 1823 Re" 26*
* Answered post, p. 674. See also post, p. 722.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 669
THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 23. April 1823.
WILLIAM P. DUVAL Esq." Governor of Florida
SIR. I am directed by the President of the United States, to request
your particular and constant attention to the preservation of the
timber upon the public Lands in Florida—and if in any case you
should be informed of any attempt unlawfully to cut it down or carry
it away, you will whenever you may deem it necessary call upon the
Military or Naval Officers of the United States, for their co-operation
in preventing it. Instructions to the same effect will be transmitted
to them from the Respective Departments of War * and the Navy,”
and corresponding orders to the Officers of the Revenue,” from the
Department of the Treasury.”
I am with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and obed" serv"
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JOHN RODMAN
[NA:TD, Letters to and from Collectors:C)
Copy TREASURY DEPARTMENT April 23* 1823.
SIR, It has been represented to the Department that timber of
great value has been taken from the public lands, and that the practice
increases rather than diminishes.
There is no law which makes it the duty of collectors of the Customs,
to restrain this practice. The army And navy appear to be the
instruments placed at the disposition of the President for the preserva-
tion of the public timber.
It is however Considered proper that every civil officer should con-
tribute to the execution of the law Enacted for that purpose as far as
the correct discharge of his appropriate duties will permit. I therefore
request that you will not permit any vessel to clear out of your dis-
trict, laden in whole or in part with live oak or red cedar, without
making such inquiries as may be practicable to ascertain whether such
timber has been cut from the public lands. If the information should
not be Satisfactory, it will be your duty to notify the commanding
military or naval officer of the district, of the facts, and leave him to
act upon the case according to the instructions which he may have
received.”
* Post, p. 674.
* No instruction by the Secretary of the Navy has been seen.
* Infra.
* Answered post, p. 682.
* No reply found. See post, p. 674.



670 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I remain with respect, Your Most Ob" Servant
(Signed) W* H. CRAWFORD
Collector of the Customs St. Augustine.
I certify that the above copy of the original letter in my possession—
is true. John Rodman Collector
SECRETARY WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd.:LS)
PENSACOLA, 26* April, 1823.
SIR; I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Circular
of the 18* March,” with the enclosed copies of an “act concerning
the disbursements of public money.” ” It has been communicated
to the Indian Agent, for his information and direction, with instruc-
tions, that its provisions will be strictly enforced.—
Inclosed, you will receive a copy of a letter from Colo. Humphreys,
Indian Agent, which he addressed to me just upon my departure for
St. Augustine, accompanying a talk he delivered to the Headmen
and warriors of the Seminole Indians, and the reply of Eneamathla,
their principal chief; copies of which are also forwarded.—
You will find from the talk of Eneamathla, that the Indians feel
much solicitude about their future location. He is, however, believed
to be incorrect in stating, that General Jackson told them in a talk,
they should keep the lands they now live on at Tallahassee and other
places, excepting that near the seaboard. In the talk delivered at
Pensacola, no such pledge is to be found; but a declaration substan-
tially to this effect; that they should remain on the lands they occu-
pied, or be removed or concentrated at some convenient point within
the interior. It is also evident from this reply, that although the
Indians are disposed to cultivate the habits of white men; yet they are
not willing that they should settle near them, or be crowded upon their
towns and villages. They are desirous of continuing a separate and
distinct people; and to effect this, they ought to be removed, so that
they may be embodied upon the same tract of country. This should
certainly be far removed from the seaboard, and sufficiently high up
in the interior, so as not to break the continuity of white settlements
which are to connect and consolidate East and West Florida.-
From Colo. Humphrey's communication to me, it appears, that it
has become necessary he should remain here, to attend to the prosecu-
tion of Maturin Simon, for a violation of the “act to regulate trade
and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the
* NA(OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E).
* Approved Jan. 31, 1823, 8 StAT. 723–724.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 671
frontiers.” After this business is disposed of, he is direeted instrueted
required to repair to St. Marks, where he was directed to reside in
my former instructions.—
In relation to the Interpreter, Stephen Richards, against whom
Colo. Humphreys has been partially engaged in investigating charges,
I have to remark, that from the information which I have been enabled
to collect, his conduct has been much misrepresented. I have, how-
ever, instructed Colo. Humphreys to prosecute the enquiry until he
arrives at a satisfactory result, and if he finds him unworthy of the
appointment to dismiss him.”—
A draft on the Branch Bank of the United States, at New Orleans,
for one thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars, has just been trans-
mitted to me by the Treasury Department, which I have been com-
pelled to forward to that place to be negociated. As soon as the money
arrives in this plaee, Pensacola, I have directed the following sums
to be paid over to Colo. Humphreys, and his receipt taken for the
same, in order to cover the expences of the Indian Department of
Florida, for the first quarter of the present year: *
For pay to the Indian agent, . . . . . . . . . . $375:--
“ presents to the Indians, . . . . . . . . . . “125:-
“. Contingenies of Indian Department, . . . . “250:
Total, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $7[MS. torn]
I have understood, that Colo. Humphreys has already drawn for his
first quarter's salary, and should it be paid # be paid at Washington,
I have given instructions, that the sum depositted in the hands of
my agent for the same purpose, shall be withheld, until that of the
second quarter shall become due.
I have enclosed you a copy of the additional Instructions addressed
to Colo. Humphreys, " which, it is to be hoped, will meet your appro-
bation.*—
“Act approved Mar. 30, 1802 (2 StAT. 139–146), as amended by an act approved
May 6, 1822 (3 STAT. 682-683).
95 Walton to Humphrey, Apr. 26, 1823 (NA,OIA, SW Lets. Recd.).
* See id. to id., Apr. 26 (loc. cit.), to the effect that the expenses of the Florida
Indian department for 1823 was limited to $3,500, and that economy was there-
fore necessary; and informing him that the sum of $750 was being sent him out
of a draft on New Orleans.
* Not present.
* Answered post, p. 691. See also post p. 681.



672 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
With the highest respect and consideration, I have the honor to be,
Y. Mo. Obt. Sert.
GEO. WALTON SecY of Florida
HoN. J. C. CALHOUN, Sec'ry. of War.
[Endorsed] Walton. G. &c Pensacola, 26 April, 1823. Enclosing
copy of instructions to Col' Humphreys, & of talk between him &
Indians, &c, &c.
[Enclosure:ALS)
Gad Humphreys to Secretary Walton
PENSACOLA, 19" April 1823.−
SIR; I have the honor to give you the following statement of my
proceedings in a visit to the Seminole Indians, in the neighbourhood
of St Marks. I regret that a want of time previous to your departure,
for St. Augustine, does not allow me to be as full and explicit in my
narative as I could wish; A more minute detail shall be reserved for
a future communication. The enclosed is the substance of a talk
given at a meeting of the Indians at St. Marks on the 20" Ultimo;
and the accompanying replication, by Enehe Mothla, the head Chief,
who speaks the sentiments of his Nation,”—as far as I can understand,
will afford you the most correct view of my opperations, and and
at the same time exhibit the feelings of the people with whom I have
had to communicate.
I must not omit at this time, to state as a fact of apparent interist
which may have influence on the measures hereafter to be adopted
in relation to these people, that keeping in mind your Instructions of
the 21* January,' I made it a consideration of primary importance
to ascertain the disposition and views of the Indians in relation to the
cultivation of the Soil, and the adoption of the habits of civilized life,
and I am happy to be enabled to say, that my inquiries have resulted
in a seemingly well founded belief, that very little more is necessary
to bring them into the measure, than to furnish them with the proper
Implements of Husbandry, and locate them upon a tract of Land
sufficiently fertile to reward and encourage their labours. Although
the settled practice of hunting for a living appears appears almost
inseparable from their nature, yet the sensible and reflecting among
them begin, even at this period, to look upon it as a precarious and
uncertain means of subsistence, and urge with reasonable but unyield-
ing pertinacity, the necessity of providing ef previding other and more
stable sources of support. They declared themselves satisfied with
what they heard at the Talk, and said that notwithstanding they felt
* Both present.
| Ante, p. 601.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 673
great solicitue to know their destiny, yet they were resolved to wait
patiently the the determination and orders of the Government on the
subject, in the belief that strict justice would be done them.
They appear in general well disposed, and not inclined to be trouble-
some; yet there is a manifest impatience felt to be informed of the
Intentions of the United States towards them, which they cannot
disguise if they would; they assert with much plausibility, that the
incertitude of their condition, precludes the possibility of their mak-
ing those permanent arrangements so essential to their comfort and well
being. How long their present docility of temper may continue it is
impossible to say, and I beg leave to take the present occasion to
suggest that the sooner they are attended to, and provided for the
better.—
On the subject of the complaints against inst Yellow Hair, second
Chief of the Chockenickla Town, mentioned in your letter of the
28* February,” I have to report, that the charges do not, on inquiry
appear to be true to the extent at first represented. He is not, how-
ever, I apprehend, altogether free from impropriety of conduct; The
other Chiefs have promised to investigate the matter, and deal with
him according to their own laws, as they may think he deserves.—
The white Inhabitants of the Country, speake well of the deportment
of the Indians generally, as being peacible and innoffensive.—
In relation to the allegations against the Interpreter, Mr Richards,
which your last communication required me to investigate, I must
remark, that the examination I have been able to make. (not alto-
gether a satisfactory one) induces the conclusion, that although he is
not so far culpable as was supposed, yet a portion of his conduct,
since his appointment is in a high degree reprehensible. Notwith-
standing this however, I have deemed it inexpedient for the present
to remove him, as I find it utterly impossible to supply his place by
any efficient or competent substitute; I shall therefore continue him
until further instructions on the subject are received.
I have been under the necessity of seizing, on the Apalachicola
River, a vessel and cargo of Maturin Simon, of this City, for a viola-
tion of the act of Congress of the 6* May 1822, in anmendment to
an act entitled “An Act to regulate trade & intercourse with the
Indian Tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers,” passed 30°
March, 1802—also for breach of his Licence, he having contrary to
the terms of said Licence, and in direct violation of the Law afore-
said, not only carried Spirituous Liquors into the Indian Country
but sold and issued the same to the Indians, at Blunt's Town, and other
places, to the very great Detriment of the Public Good. Information
has been lodged, the property Libelled, and the matter put into the
hands of the District Attorney, Major Steele from whom, I under-
* Not found.
801867–57–44



674 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
stand the cause will be tried in all probability, at the next May Term
of the Superior Court of this District.—The District Attorney has
notified me, that my presence at the trial will be essentially requisite;
if an arrangement for that purpose will not be seriously incompatible
with my other official duties. He thinks it desirable for the success
of the prosecution.—
My accounts for expenditures on the tour will be ready in a day or
two and shall be forwarded either to yourself or Gov" Duval.”—
I have the honor to remain With the highest respect Your Obed"
Serv't
G. HUMPHREYS Indian Agent.
To GEO. WALTON Esq." Acting Govt of Florida. & Sup" of Indian
Affairs.
FONTAINE MAURY TO JOHN R. BELL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 28 April 1823
CAPTAIN JOHN R. BELL
SIR. Your Letter of the 20° instant has been duly received," in
answer to which I have to inform you, the M* Worthington, the
Acting Governor having certified to this Department you, Forbes,
Law and the other two Commissioners, were by stipulation only to
receive three dollars a day, for their Services in receiving the Archives
and Documents, the Secretary has no power vested in him by any
authority whatever to exceed that allowance; and Mº Forbes, and
Mº Law, having settled in that way, I have enclosed you eighty four
dollars, the sum which they have received; and which seems to be all
that they can obtain but by an Act of Congress.”
I am with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO EDMUND P.
GAINES AND WINFIELD SCOTT
[NA:WD, AGO Letters Sent, Bk. 6]
Adj' Gen' Office WASHINGTON 28 April 1823.
MAJOR GEN GAINES Commº W. Dep* Louisville Ky MAJOR GEN'
SCOTT Comme E. Dep" New York
SIR, I am directed by the Major General commanding the Army to
advise you that the Governor of Florida has recently been instructed
* See post, p. 681.
* Ante, p. 667.
* See post, p. 722.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 675
through the Dep" of State," to pay particular attention to the preserva-
tion of the timber upon the public lands in Florida, and that he has
been authorized to call whenever he may deem it necessary upon the
Military Officers of the United States for their co-operation in pre-
venting the timber from being cut down or carried away.—
You will please give the necessary instructions to the commanding
Officers of such posts in Florida as are within your department
directing them to further the views of the Governor in relation to this
subject by all the means which may be within their control, whenever
they may be called upon for that purpose."—
I have the honour to be &°
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters, :ALS)
St. AUGUSTINE May the 1* 1823
HON” JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State for the United States
SIR I have the honour to inform you of my arrival at this city on
the 28* ultimo with the Public records & Documents under my
charge—I was compelled to perform the journey from Pensacola by
land—as a vessel could not be procured for St. Augustine Col."
Walton was left in Pensacola his family were unwill, and his only
daughter, was dangerously ill at my departure. If the situation of
his family will permit, the Secretary will attend the counsel after
which I shall direct him to return to West. Florida as his presence will
be more necessary their, than, in this quarter *
I find all peace and quietness here. The excitement against me was
confined to a few disappointed men, who have succeded in imposing
themselves on our Delegate, as the majority of the People—This will
be fully proven by the events that, will follow hear after *—
With sentiments of high respect &c. I remain your Obt Sevt
Wm P DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” John. Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] St. Augustine: May 6. Free
[Endorsed] Duval Gov" St Augustine, 1 May 1823 His arrival at
St Augustine &c. Recd 26
* Ante, p. 669.
* See post, p. 693.
* Ante, p. 665.
* See post, p. 682.



676 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DANIEL E. BURCH
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Sent, Bk. 5]
May 1° 1823
CAP* D. E BURCH Ass" Q M Pensacola.
SIR I have received your letters dated 25* March " & 24 April "–
The road to the Barrancas will be made on the best route.
I have required that the sum of one thousand dollars in addition to
five thousand required for you on the 4” of March, be transmitted to
you on acco" of the Quarter Master's Dep"
It is the intention of the Government to ask, at the next session of
Congress, for an appropriation for the purpose of opening a road from
Pensacola to Sº Augustine—and in order that the best information may
be obtained of the nature of the country, and of the most eligible route,
it is desirable that a survey be made during the present season. I
wish you to consult the Comd" Officer, and ascertain whether an
Officer competent to make the survey can be detailed either from the
Artillery, or the Infantry stationed near Pensacola, and report to me as
soon as practicable.”
I am Sir. &"
WILLIAM SEBREE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA W. Florida. May 1st 1823.
SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of my Commis-
sion, as Marshal of West Florida; * having arrived here, on the 15th.
ultimo and entered upon the duties of that appointment.
Permit me to suggest, that great injury may result to the United
States, from the circumstance of there being no jail in Pensacola:
(Escambia County;) nor indeed in all the Territory of West Florida—
The safe keeping of prisoners, therefore, Committed under the laws
and Authorities of the United States, may become a very precarious
matter; even with every caution, and vigilancane, on the part of the
ministerial Officers.
The public jail, (or “Calabozo,”) in use here under the Spanish
Government, is in a State of rapid decay: It cannot be used as a jail:
neither will it admit of improvement—
There is another subject to which I beg leave to call your attention.
The District of West Florida, is without a Court House, or any
other Building suitable for the offices of the Court—
1° Ante, p. 653.
11 NA (WD, QMG Lets. Recd.), concerning his accounts and returns.
12 See post, p. 683.
tº Ante, p. 590.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 677
The House occupied at present as a Court Room, is an old public
Building, very much out of repair: not even comfortable; nor yet is it
convenient—It is not susceptible of any permanent improvement.
Upon these Subjects of interest to the government and to the people
of this District, I shall feel much obliged to learn the pleasure of the
Department—
Would it be convenient to forward me the laws of the United
States? 14–
With Sentiments of the highest Respect, I have the honour Sir,
To be your most obt. Sevt.
WILLIAM SEBREE MARSHAL D.W. Florida.
HON. JoHN QUINCY Adams Washington City—
[Addressed] John Quincy Adams, Esquire Secretary of State,
Washington City.
[Endorsed] Sebree W* Pensacola, 1 May 1823 Recd 26th. want of
necessary buildings for the Court.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[LC:Monroe Papers:ALS)
St AUG' 5th May 1823
DEAR SIR. On my arrival in Charleston I received intelligence, of
your flattering attention, in appointing me one of the Commissioners,
to adjust claims to lands in East Florida,” and as I presumed, it
might be your intention to bestow the office of District Attorney on
another, I immediately wrote to the Secretary of State,” advising the
propriety of suspending the appointment,” until the termination of
the present setting of the Superior Court, which would in all proba-
bility take place about the middle of June, at which time, the Legis-
lative Council would also adjoun, in order to prevent any delay and
consequent complaint in criminal prosecutions. The Superior Court
has this day commenced its first session, under the direction of Judge
Smith, to the very great satisfaction of the community, and it is with
pleasure I inform you that the Judge is considered a valuable acquisi-
tion to the Territory—
The Legislative Council have not been able to form a quorum, it
has nevertheless been determined to form temporary committees, in
order to prepare for its legal session—In pursuing this course, no time
will be lost and as it will be thus, only a business body, thier future
legislation will in all probability be unexceptionable. The Governor
14 Reply, if any, not found.
15 Ante, p. 656.
16 Not found.
17 See post, p. 680.



678 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
made his appearance three days since and will certainly be supported
by the most respectable of the inhabitants, if he endeavour to respect
himself 18–
This being the first mail, since I had the honor to receive your
flattering letter "I must beg you will excuse my apparent inattention
and accept my most sincere thanks for your peculiarly friendly
notice—I shall not attempt to portray my feelings on this occasion,
but beg you to believe, that every effort will be made to perform the
delicate and responsible trust, in correspondence with your kind
expectations—My appointment was announced, previous to my
arrival, with pleasing approbation
If no disposition has been made, of the office of District Attorney”
permit me to recommend Belton A Copp of S' Marys, as a suitable
candidate.
Be pleased to present my best to M** Monroe and as the severe
frost of last winter has destroyed all prospect of a crop of oranges,
I am fearful I shall disappoint M** Hay * in my promise—The Terri-
tory will loose about $20,000 by this unusually severe visitant.—
With sentiment of much esteem and respect I remain your Obed"
Sert
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
JAMES MONROE Esq.
[Addressed) James Monroe Esq –Washington
[Endorsed] May 5. 1823 Mr Hamilton—
SAMUEL R. OVERTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
(Private.) PENSACOLA, 8* May, 1823.
Dr SIR; The Act “Amending and supplementary to the act, for
ascertaining claims and titles to land in the Territory of Florida and
to provide for the survey and disposal of the public lands in Florida,”
was not long since, transmitted to this place by M* Hernandez.
Being the only Commissioner in West Florida, I without hesitation,
assumed the responsibility of announcing, through the medium of the
newspaper published at Pensacola, that our session had been pro-
1* See ante, p. 675.
1° Not found.
* Hamilton resigned this position in a letter to Judge Smith, May 7, 1823
(St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, May 10, 1823). See ante, p. 413. Judge Smith's
acknowledgment, with laudatory comments, appears ibid. Hamilton was paid
the sum of $100 for the services rendered (NA, GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. 1823).
21 Mrs. George Hay, daughter of the President.
22 Approved Mar. 3, 1823, 3 STAT. 754–756.



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 679
longed until the second Monday of February, and that our office was
open for the reception of claims, which must be filed before the first
day of December next. I did not consider this measure entirely
regular; but as it grew out of the necessity of the case and was cal-
culated to accomplish the object in view, it was promptly adopted.—
Maj' Ware, had, some time previously, taken his departure from
this place for the state of Mississippi, and had not returned. This
step was urged, as I understood, by a regard to his own health, and
that of his children, with the intention to return as soon as the third
Commissioner and the law extending our term arrived, unless pre-
vented by a continuance of the causes which produced his absence.
I have not yet heard from him and cannot state any thing positively
as to his determination. It is rumored here, but with what correct-
ness I cannot say, that he is upon a trip thro' the Western country,
and that he will not return to Pensacola. The continued ill health
of his children has, no doubt, compelled him to adopt this alternative,
and he will, it is presumed, resign his appointment as Commissioner.
Anticipating such an event, I have again considered it my duty to
address you upon the subject. It is by no means my wish to be ob-
trusive; but feeling the solicitude I do for the public interest, it is to
hoped the freedom in which I shall indulge will be pardoned. The
performance of our duties has, heretofore, been so long suspended by
disease, and other events, over which we had no controul, that it is
very desirable we should now be enabled to make some progress.
The claimants are becoming impatient, and begin to express their
dissatisfaction. Under such circumstances, I would respectfully
recommend, that no time be lost in filling any vacances which might
occur in the Board. I would again press upon your attention, the
necessity of appointing Jos. M. White Esq. of this place, to supply the
first which may be presented.” He is better qualified than any other
individual, either in or out of the Territory; and with myself, would be
enabled to complete the business of the commission in the smallest
practicable period. Were any other person selected, it would require
a devotion of 3 or 4 months to the study of the claims, before he would
be prepared to decide them. I do therefore, most sincerely hope, that
Mr White may be appointed, should there be a vacancy, occasoned
either by the resignations of Maj' Ware or Colo. Preston. If there
are two vacancies, I would recommend Juſdge] G. A. Gaither, who
has been sometime a practicing attorney at St. Augustine, and a
member of the firſst] Legislative Council. He is well qualified, as to
capacity, and an acquaintance with the laws and ordinances of
Spain, and does not, I am advised, own a foot of land in the Territory,
which is an important consideration. Judge Gaither will be at
* See post, p. 711.



680 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Bardstown, Kentucky, where a notification of his appointment could
be directed, and in a week afterwards, he could be transported by water
to this place.—
With the most profound respect and esteem, I am y' mo. obt.
Humbº Sert.
SAM! R. OVERTON.
HIS EXC'Y. JAMES MONROE, Prest. U. S.
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe, President of U. States,
Washington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola May 10 Free
[Endorsed] Jos. M. White Overton Sam: R. Pensacola, 8th May
1823. Recd 9th June recommends Jos: M. White & G. A. Gaither
as Comms Land Claims. May 8th 1823. Mr Overton
COMMISSION OF EDGAR MACON AS UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY (EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms. Pres.]
[May 9, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the Integ-
rity Ability and Learning of EDGAR MACON of Virginia, I do appoint
him Attorney of the United States for that part of the Territory of
Florida, known as East Florida as well as Attorney for the same part
of said Territory; * and do authorize and empower him to execute
and fulfil the duties of that Office according to law; and to Have
and to Hold the same together with all the powers, privileges and
emoluments thereto of right appertaining unto him the said EDGAR
MACON, during the pleasure of the President of the United States
for the time being, and until the end of the next Session of the Senate
of the United States, and no longer.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washing-
ton the Ninth day of May A. D. 1823; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Seventh.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
* A recess appointment.
* This commission was transmitted to Macon on May 10, 1823 (NA, SD,
Dom. Lets., XX). His acceptance was written at Orange, Va., on May 17, 1823
(NA, SD, Acceptances). A commission for a four-year term was issued to him
on Dec. 9, 1823, post, p. 806,



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 681
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO HORATIO S. DEXTER
[NA:HF, 21 Cong., 1 sess.:LS 29)
St AUGUSTINE May 10* 1823
SIR I deem it of vital importance to the interest of the United
States in East Florida, to obtain your assistance and information,
in the management and superintendance of the Indians.
I shall therefore request that you will discharge the duties of Sub
Indian Agent for the Territory of Florida, (until the Secrety of War
direct otherwise) your compensation will be such as he may deem
proper to allow.
If you are willing to serve the United States in this matter you
will immediately make out an estimate of a few necessary articles
for the Indians in East Florida the Agent Col" Humphryes will him-
self be in West Florida and can personally attend to the Indians in
the vicinity of the Post of St Marks. you will oblige me by giving
me all the information, of customs, habits, towns, or situation of the
Seminole Indians you possess or can obtain as soon as convenient.”
I have the honour to remain your obed" serv"
Wm P DUVAL
Governor of the Territory of Florida and Supt. of In" Affairs
HoRATIO S DEXTER Esq."
[Endorsed] Appointment of Indian Agent W* P Duval May 10*
1823.28
* Filed with petition to Congress by Horatio S. Dexter, Nov. 18, 1829. A
copy is in NA (OIA, SW Lets. Recd.).
?? Answered May 16, 1823 (loc. cit.), accepting the appointment. See post,
pp. 694, 697.
28 On the same date (May 10) DuVal enclosed to the Secretary of War the
accounts of the Florida Indian department (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., D 50).
Correspondence of Gadsden and DuVal with Dexter, while he was employed
temporarily as Indian subagent, is filed with Dexter's petition of Nov. 18, 1829,
for payment for his services. Among the letters are Gadsden to Dexter, May 20,
1823, asking that he communicate the desire of the treaty commissioners to see
Miconope, a Seminole chief, at St. Augustine; id. to id., June 12, 1823, written
from St. Augustine, requesting Dexter to collect information about the country
to the south; Dexter to DuVal, June 23, 1823, from St. Augustine, stating that
in preparation for the conference with the Seminoles, the views of the U.S.
Government in regard to their concentration should be explained to them and
that intercourse with them should be prohibited in the meantime; DuVal to
Dexter, June 25, 1823, instructing him, while exploring the peninsula of Florida
near Tampa Bay, to bring in all runaway negroes with the aid of the Indians,
and that he should keep a journal; and Segui to id., June 27, 1823, urging him
to complete his journey before meeting with the Indians. See also Dexter to
DuVal, Aug. 20, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.), an enclosure in DuVal to
the Secretary of War, Aug. 26, 1823, containing a full report, in the form of a
journal, on his journey into the southwest part of the peninsula (some 40 MS.
pages), and also a manuscript which he entitled “Observations on the Seminoles,”
giving their history, numbers, lists of towns with names of chiefs, and their
physical characteristics and customs. See post, p. 697.



682 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE May 13, 1823.
HoN. JoHN Q. ADAMS, Secretary of State,
SIR, The mail of this morning brought me your duplicate letter of
the 23% ultimo " I beg you will assure the President that my constant
attention shall be given to the preservation of the timber upon the
public lands in this Territory "-
Permit me to suggest that much advantage would result to the
United States by having the Laws regularly published in the Floridian
a newspaper printed in Pensacola—so little intercourse is had between
the cities of St. Augustine & Pensacola that the laws of the United
States published in the newspaper of this city will not be known in
West Florida 3–
I understand that Col. Walton the Secretary has recommended
Sam' Fry Esq to fill the vacancy in the Legislative Council caused by
the resignation of M* Noriega " I hope he may be appointed as it is
very uncertain whether without his appointment a council can be
formed to do business Mº Mitchell of Pensacola Mº Yonge & Col.
Barnett will not attend, Dº Gibson is also absent and his return to this
place is uncertain—
I am with great respect & esteem Your obedt. serv"
Wm P. DUWAL
[Addressed] Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] St Augustine: May 13. free
[Endorsed] Duval Wºm P. St Augustine, 13 May 1823 Recd 29th,
Legislative Council of Florida.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE, May 13th 1823
HON"JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State for the United States
The Secretary Co" Walton and General Call, arrived here two days
since No other member, appointed of the Legislative Counsel
came with Gen' Call, no quorum can as yet be formed, as several
members of the counsel have not yet made their appearance. Col"
Hamilton, has resigned his office as Attorney for East Florida and
Judge Smith has appointed Col" George Murry as the Attorney, untill
the President shall appoint another, It would give much satisfaction
29 Amte, p. 669.
* See post, p. 693.
*1 See post, p. 691.
* See ante, p. 640, n.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 683
in this quarter, and particularly to the most inteligent men in East
Florida if Co" Murry should be selected as the Attorney—he has
resided here for two years, and is well calculated to render the land
commissioners important services in the investigation of many of the
land claims
I have the honour to remain your Obt. Servant
Wm P. DUVAL
The inclosed account for Publishing the Laws of Florida, has not
been paid by me I am not acquainted with the prices of this kind of
work, this can be ascertained readily at Washington, and whatever is
considered right there, ought to allowed on the account I therefore
request your direction as to what I should pay—W" P. DuVal
[Addressed] Hon” John Q Adams Secretary of State Washington
City. [Postmarked] St. Augustine May 13 free
|Endorsed] 13 May 1823. Duval Governor Recommends George
Murray as Attorney in East Florida.
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DANIEL E. BURCH
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 5)
May 15th 1823
CAP* DAN' E. BURCH Ass" QM. Pensacola.
SIR. I have received your letter dated the 6" Ultimo.” The
Block House occupied by the Collector will be retained by him as a
Custom House—The Government House is considered the property of
the Civil Department, and the Military will not interfere with it,
unless it should be entirely abandoned by the Civil. The block
House occupied by the City authorities of Pensacola will be considered
as appropriated to their use. The Hospital and such other buildings
as can be dispensed with, may be rented—It is not thought advisable
to incur the expense of repairing the Hospital, but you may authorize
any individual whom you may think proper to occupy it for a year,
on condition that he make the necessary repairs and stipulate to
surrender it at the end of the year, thus repaired, to yourself or your
SuCCeSSOI".
I wish as early, and as correct, information as you may be enabled to
give of the route from Pensacola to Mobile Point, direct—from
Pensacola to Mobile, and also, from Pensacola in a direction as
nearly north as possible to the interior of Alabama. To sustain that
post in the event of War, communication to the rear will be necessary,
and I wish to bring the subject before the Government in the course
of the present season. I wish you to present estimates of the probable
expense of opening such communications.”
I am Sir &"
* Not found.
* Answered post, p. 697.



684 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
JOHN DU BOSE TO JOHN RODMAN
[NA:HF, 17 Cong., 2 sess.: C]
[May 21, 1823]
JoHN RODMAN Esq."
SIR during my Continuance among the Small Keys, or Islands,
in the Southern parts of the Coast of Florida, I made every exertion,
in endeavouring to Obtain a Knowledge of the extent & Manner in
which the Wrecking business, was Carried on & the effect, it had on
the Revenue of the U" States—As this Subject appears to have
Claim'd your Attention; I will endeavour in as concise a manner as
possible, to lay before you, the result of my personal observations,
togather with such other information, as I have been enabled to
obtain, from those inhabitants residing among the Keys, whom I
had reasons to believe Entitled to Credit—. and will at the same
time, offer to you my opinion, as to those measures best calculated
to Secure to the U" States, the duties on all Goods wreck'd on the
Coast—The first Measure, which I would recommend, is the estab-
lishment of a Store House, on the Island of old Mattacombe (distant
about 70 Miles, to the South of Cape Florida & 100 Miles to the
North of Key West—) under the Superintendence of an Inspector of
the Revenue, That he Should be furnished with a Revenue Cutter, of
Sufficient force, to ensure prompt Submission to his Orders—. I
have been very credibly inform'd, that there are 120 Sail of Wessels,
Kept employd from the Bahama Islands, within the Carrysford **
Reef, whose Sole employment is wrecking & Transporting over to
Providence, Goods of this description, and that the Amount of duties,
paid to the British Goverment in Nassau by those Wreckers, may
fairly be estimated at £15,000 yearly—If the Wreckers, either
American or British, are permitted, to Take possession of every article
of this description, which may fall in their way; and dispose of them
as they please; I would ask, where is the Security left to this Gover-
ment, that the duties will be paid; the probability is, that but a Small
portion of Goods, Wreck'd on this Coast, are ever Reported for pay-
ment of Duties—Your Inspector would be enabled to Collect all those
Goods, in the Publick Store, and at the time of their reshipment,
demand from the Captains or Owners, a Bond, for their being duly
reported to the Custom House for payment of duties—. By placing
the Revenue Cutter, under the Command of the inspector, he would
be able to prevent the British Wreckers from taking those Goods out
of the United States—before the duties were Secur’d—. This Trade
has been injoy'd by the Inhabitants of the Bahama Islands, Since
the first Settlement of those Keys—they appear to Consider it as
their right, and are determin'd to persevere in it, untill our Gover-
ment, by the adoption of Some energetick Measures, Shall Compell
* Careysfort Reef lies off Key Largo on the eastern side of the tip of Florida.



FLO RI D A T E R R I TO R Y 685
them to withdraw—The extent of this Trade & the very Serious injury
done to the Revenue of the U" States by the English Wreckers, may
be estimated, by the number of Wessels employ'd in it—and also by
the amount of Duties paid by them to the Custom House in Nassau–.
I mention'd to you, in my Letter of the 10 In' " that I had boarded
the British Brig, Gen' Phipps' of 300 Tons, on the Reef, near to Key
Tavanier The Captain & owner appeard to be a Man of an improv’d
Mind, and possessing very general Commercial information, on the
subject of this Letter we Convers'd very fully—He observed that
there were a Number of British West Indiamen lost on the Reefe
every year, that the property generally fell into the hands of the
Wreckers, & that Such was their Conduct & general characters—he
had reasons to believe, that the underwriters receiv'd but little
Benefit from their assistance, That in all Cases, where a British Vessel
was Wreck'd; it would afford much Satisfaction, to their Commander,
to meet with some publick officer to whom they might commit, that
part of their Cargo sav'd from the Wreck; & that the want of some
Establishment of this Kind, was sensibly felt by all those Mariners,
who were so unfortunate as to fall into, the hands of the Wreckers,
It is therefore solely with the view, to save those Goods from falling
into the hands of the Providence Wreckers, and the duties, on them
totally lost to the U" States, that I would advise the immediate
appointment of an Inspector, and the establishment of a Store House,
near a Central part of the Reefe; The Island of old Mattacombe is
situated near the most dangerous part of it, and has also the advan-
tages of a good Harbour & good Water, another consideration is, that
it is in sight of Key Tavaniere, the principal resort of all the Wreckers,
from these reasons, & from a personal inspection of its Situation, &
advantages I have been led to Select it, as the most desireable place;
either for the Establishment of a Store House, or the Location of the
Inspector—From this port, to Cape Florida, a distance of 250 Miles,
there is no Settlement on the Coast & from the Cape to Key West
a distance of 180 Miles, there is only one Settlement; thus in a dis-
tance of 430 Miles on our Coast, in the immediate Vicinity of the
British Ports—there is no Custom House officer, or Revenue Cutter;--
When our Goverment take into their Consideration, the extent to
which the Wrecking (and as intimate’ly connected with it, the
Smugling) business is Carried on in this part of our Coast, and the
great advantages which might accrue to our Revenue by this estab-
lishment; It is to be suppos'd, they will furnish the means, necessary
to suppress this Evil—. By adopting this Plan, the temptations to
Evade the Revenue Laws, would be decreas'd & Some Security
afforded to the Goverment that the duty on Goods, wreck'd on own
Coast, would be Secur’d—from the nearness to Providence & also
* Not found.



686 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
to the Havannah, every facility is afforded for the introduction of
foreighn Goods, among the Keys, and I will Venture to Assert, that
there is no part of our Coast, that requires more the attention of the
Goverment; at this time; than from Cape Florida, to the Tortugas's—
as respects the force & description of a Cutter to be Station'd there,
I would observe; that She should not draw more than 4 feet Water;-.
a greater draught would prevent her acting with advantage—from
her being Stationd on the most desolate part of our Coast and from
it's being in the neighbourhood of Cuba; I would Consider it, abso-
lutely necessary that her force & Equipment, should be respectable—.
Should our Government think proper to Carry, any part of these
plans, into Execution & will give me the appointment, I will, imme-
diately remove with my family & property to the Keys, Having been
for Several years in our Navy & at a later period, in the Merchant
Service, as Commander; I have the Confidence to believe, Should I be
appointed Captain of a Revenue Cutter; that my Conduct as Such
would merit the approbation of the Goverment & a continuance of
it's Confidence—Respectfully Sir Yr Mº Ob"
JN° DU BOSE Inspector, of the Custom for Sº Augustine Dis”
Sº Augustine 21* May 1823
[Endorsed] Copy of a Letter addressed to John Rodman, ExCollector
of the Port of Sº Augustine by John Du Bose, 21 May 1823–
JOEL YANCEY TO JOSEPH ANDERSON
[NA:GAO, First Comptroller Treas., Letters Recd., Fla.:LS 37)
State Kentucky BARRON COUNTY May. 24* 1823.
SIR You no doubt are informed before now that the Squadron
under Commodore Porter's command did not Sail from Cape Henry
till about 14* February last, and as I took passage in one of those
vessels, that I of course, could not get to Key West before the vessel
that transported me, which was on the 3"April last. and I on that day
organized my office, and the first opportunity I had, embarked for
Mobile, & then to Orleans where I landed 22 Ultimo, and sailed in a
Steam Boat the next day for Louisville where I arrived in 13% days,
and thence came on home, nearly one hundred miles South. I left a
Deputy to transact the business in my absence, which will be un-
avoidably several months on account of indispensible business; and
the object of this communication is, chiefly to ask the favour of you
to inform me, whether my first quarterly return to you should be made
in reference to 19 Nov last, the day I qualified & gave bond, or to the
37 In the same place is a letter of July 24, 1823, from Yancey to Anderson, the
contents of which are similar to the letter of the same date from Yancey to the
Secretary of the Treasury, post, p. 723.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 687
3” Ult” I am anxious to do what is right, and in the manner approved
by you. I had no opportunity while I was at Sea to make and trans-
mit a return. As soon as convenient, you will be so good as to answer
me and accept the assurance of my respects, and believe me your
friend.*
JoEL YANCEY Coll' Key West
[Addressed] The Hon. Joseph Anderson Comptroller of the Treas-
ury W City. [Postmarked] Glasgow Ky 24 May 25
[Endorsed] Key-West May 24: 1823 Answ" June 12" Joel Yancey,
Coll' stating the time of his departure to enter upon the duties of his
office; and requesting to know from what time his Salary is to com-
Inence.—
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
ST AUGUSTIN 26th May 1823
HON. JOHN QUINCEY ADAMS Secry of State for the U States
SIR I have the honor to inform you that on saturday last the
Legislative Council have commenced their Session. Nine members
have appeared & more are not expected to attend. I have been
compelled to rent an office for the Secretary, as none of the public
buildings here which are tenantable are under my control. the
Council occupy the only habitable room in the Governors old mansion,
& it has been rendered so by Judge Smith, for the purpose of holding
his Courts. I am obliged to get some cheap furniture for the Office
but all of it will cost but little, as I shall have it made of Pine, & will
only take as much as is absolutely necessary. I enclose you the
Printers account for publishing the laws of the Territory, at this
place Amo" $472.75, which I think too much. it would perhaps be
best to allow no more than the price paid by Governm" for publishing
the laws of the United States, this being once understood, the sub-
ject will give little trouble in future.
Last July, when the members of the Council arrived at Pensacola,
several of them informed me, that the Archives & public records
which had been delivered over to Mr Edmund Law by Mº Worthington
while acting Goveror, were very negligently kept, & that M Law
had been in the habit of permitting persons to take out of his office
as Alcalde original papers, & that on leaving Sº Augustin to attend
the Council at Pensacola he turned the papers over to some private
individual, beleiving it my duty immediately to have the papers
collected and placed in safe keeping, & to guard against any improper
** Anderson replied on June 12, 1823, to the effect that his accounts should
begin with the date of his official oath, which was Dec. 19, 1822 and not Nov. 19
(NA, GAO, First Comptroller, Revenue Letters Sent, Bk. 36).



688 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
conduct either in withdrawing from, or adding any papers to, the
record. & as many of them were in loose sheets filed I directed Mº
Gibbs & James S. Tingle Clerks of the superior & inferior courts of
this City to take into their possession the papers, & make out an
inventory of all the important ones so that if hereafter any fraud
should be attempted it can be easily detected. this was done promptly
& these Gentlemen have preferred a Claim, for this service. I wrote
to them that they would have to depend on the Gover" for such com-
pensation as might be deemed reasonable. I trust Sir you will not
consider my having directed this measure as an improper interference
on my part. I was induced to do so from a conviction that serious
injury would arise to the interest of the United States if I postponed
acting until after I could communicate with you at Washington. I
wish to enquire if Congress at their late session made any appropria-
tion for the payment of the expenses incurred in this City, in the
Maintenance & prosecution of Criminals, the fees due to Cap"
Hanham the Sheriff are considerable, he has advanced the money
himself & is now in serious distress for the want of it.
I is highly necessary in my opinion that the Secret” Col. Walton
should return to Pensacola after the Council adjourns, the difficulty
of communication between that City & this, retards in a great measure
the operations of the local Government, & the sectional feeling that
prevails in this territory makes it requisite that while I am in one
section of the Country the Secret” should be in the other. I shall
therefore direct his return to Pensacola, the want of his services &
advice will be sensibly felt by me. I must however under the present
state of affairs submit to this inconvenience, I request of you or the
President that some reasonable allowance from the contingent fund,
may be paid to a Clerk, whom I shall be compelled otherwise to pay
out of my salary, a very moderate allowance will be sufficient.
The People of East Florida are now well satisfied & I shall endeavor
to discharge my duties so as to meet the approbation of the President
and yourself, and preserve harmony among our Citizens.
with sentiments of high respect & esteem I am your obed" Serv"
Wm P. DUWAL
[Addressed] Hon” John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] St. Augustine May 28. free
[Endorsed] Duval Wm. P. St. Augustine, 26 May 1823 Recd 13th
June. affairs of Florida.



FLORI D A T E R R IT OR Y 689
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT of WAR 27* May 1823
HIS EXCELLºy Wºn P DUVAL St Augustine Florida
SIR, Your letter of the 1* inst: enclosing your account as Super-
intendent of Indian Affairs, has been received.”
All the items in your account will be allowed, with the exception of
that for clerk hire, office rent &" which cannot be allowed at the rate
which you have charged. It is true, that the specific sum ($1500)
charged, has been allowed to Governors Clark,” Cass * & Miller,” but
the allowance was made to them under peculiar circumstances which
are not considered at all applicable to your Superintendency.
For some time previous to the appointment of Gen' Clark as Gov-
ernor of the Missouri Territory, he acted under the authority of the
President as Agent for Indian Affairs at Sº Louis with a salary of
$1500 per annum,” and during which time no allowance was made to
the gentleman, who preceded him as Governor of the Territory, on
account of the duties performed by him as superintendent of Indian
Affairs. But at the assumption of the duties of Governor, in 1813, by
Gen'l Clark, the Office of Agent for Indian Affairs was abolished and
the duties and authorities which were vested in him, were thereafter
placed in the Governor, who, for the performance of the same as well
as for clerk hire, office rent &" &° for the Indian Department was
allowed the Salary previously given to the Agent.* The Governor of
the Missouri Territory, by this arrangement, not only had to perform
the duties of Indian Agent at Sº Louis, where the intercourse with the
Indians has always been great, but had also the control of all the
Jndian Agencies on the Mississippi and Missouri, which rendered his
duties in the Indian Department highly responsible and laborious;
and in consequence of which the specific allowance of $1500 a year was
made to him as before stated; the whole of which was for incidental
expenses necessarily incurred, or for extra compensation for extra
services.
The same may be said as to the compensation of the Governor of the
Michigan Territory who has under his control as Superintendent of
Indian Affairs several Indian Agencies, some of which are located
* A letter of May 10, 1823, seems to be the correct one; it was referred from
the office of the Secretary of War to the Second Auditor, William Lee (NA, WD,
SW, Reg. Lets. Recd., D 150).
40 William Clark, Governor of Missouri Territory, 1813–1821; cf. Terr. Papers
(La.-Mo.), XIV, 108–109.
41 Lewis Cass, Governor of Michigan Territory, 1813–1831; cf. ibid. (Mich.), x, 6.
* James Miller, Governor of Arkansas Territory, 1819–1825; cf. ibid. (Ark.),
XIX, 102–103.
* Ibid. (La-Mo.), XIV, 109–110.
* Ibid., pp. 553, 655.
801867–57–45



690 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
without the limits of the Territory and the duties of which he is not
bound by law to perform. Besides superintending the Agencies, he is
charged with the immediate performance of the duties of Agent for
the Indians residing within the Peninsula of Michigan; with paying
the annuities which are to be paid by treaty at Detroit, amounting to
a large sum & involving a heavy pecuniary responsibility; with the
expense of attending to the numerous Indians that resort to that
place, and with preventing the intercourse of the Indians within our
limits with the British provinces: For which extra duties, as well as
for clerk hire, office rent &" the specific allowance of $1500 was deemed
not more than an adequate compensation, and is believed to be not
much more than sufficient to cover his actual expenses.”
When General Miller entered on the duties of Governor of the Ar-
kansas Territory, there was no agent to attend to the Osages and
Quapaws, and he had a difficult negociation to effect between the
Cherokees and Osages, who were at war, which required great personal
exertions and expense in making long journies to meet these tribes for
that purpose. Under these circumstances, the same allowance was at
first made to him; but since a treaty of peace has been concluded
between the Cherokees and Osages, and the trouble and expense has
in consequence become less, the allowance has been reduced one half;
and is intended to cover all incidental expenses as well as for extra
duty performed as Agent to the Osages and Quapaws, who have no
agent, in paying their annuities &c.”
It does not appear that any specific annual allowance was ever
made to any governor of a territory for the performance of the duties
of Superintendent of Indian Affairs as such. In the three cases
mentioned, it was intended to secure the Governors against loss by the
performance of such duties; and as extra compensation for the per-
formance of extra duties.
Under all these circumstances, I have no doubt you will see the
impossibility of extending to your Superintendency the rule adopted
in the three cases referred to. I am perfectly willing, however, to
place you on a footing with respect to compensation, with the Gover-
nors of every other Territory who have acted as Superintendents of
Indian Affairs—that is, to allow you, (if it should be necessary in the
discharge of your duties as Superintendent of Indian Affairs to keep
an office and employ a clerk,) a reasonable sum for that purpose; and
also the expenses which you may necessarily incur in your intercourse
with the Indians. As it would perhaps be difficult to keep an exact
account of your expenses when travelling on business with the Indians,
or otherwise engaged in attending to their concerns, the allowance
will be made on your certificate of honor as to the actual amount of
* Ibid. (Mich.), XII, 223–224.
* Ibid. (Ark.), xix, 102–103,453–454. Cf. ante, p. 626, n.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 691
such expenses. But as the Florida tribe is very small and their
intercourse with Sº Augustine limited; and as there is a subagent for
the post who might be charged with the duties of attending to such
Indians as may visit it, my impression is that you will not find a
clerk necessary, at least while he is present, and that if an Office be
indispensable, an arrangement might be made by which you could be
accommodated in one of the public buildings. If, however, you
should find it necessary to employ a clerk and rent an Office, you will
immediately report the name of your clerk with the rate of compensa-
tion allowed him, as well as that for the Office, for the determination of
this Department.”
I have &c. J. C. C.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO SECRETARY WALTON
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 28 May 1823
COL” GEO: WALTON SecY &* Pensacola W F.
SIR, Your letters of the 22** & 26* ulti” “ have been received.
You appear to understand perfectly the ground on which the
allowances were made to the Superintendents of Indian affairs in
Missouri, Michigan and Arkansas. The number of Indian Tribes
& Agencies under the control of each of the two former; and the
peculiar State of Indian Affairs in the Arkansas Territory at the time
the latter entered on his duties, rendered a special allowance necessary
to cover their actual expenses and secure them against loss on account
of the duties performed by them respectively in the Indian Depart-
ment. In no other cases has a special annual allowance been made.
Had the practice been uniform, there would have been no difficulty
in your case, but as it has not I cannot admit your account. From
the very candid view you have taken of the subject, I feel convinced
you will see the propriety of this decision and cheerfully acquiesce in
it. If you had actually incurred expenses in the performance of
duties in the Indian Department they would have been allowed
without hesitation.
The additional instructions which you have given to the Indian
Agent are very proper, and it is hoped will be strictly attended. The
draft of the Agent for his first quarter's Salary has been presented
here and paid. With regard to the solicitude of the Indians about
there future location, you are already apprized that Commissioners
*7 Answered post, p. 732.
* Not found.
* Ante, p. 670.



692 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
have been appointed to hold a treaty with them for the purpose of
effecting that object.”
I have &c. J. C. C.
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x1:ALS)
US District Attorneys office
PENSACOLA W. Florida, 30” May 1823
SIR I have the honor to inclose to you herewith an answer to an
opinion of the US Dis' Judge of West Florida” —which answer is of
file in the office of the Clerk of the District Court.—I have to apolo-
gize Sir for intruding this on your attention by stating that it came to
my knowledge recently that one John Innerarity a man notorious
here for his hostility to the United States & for his unprincipled charac-
ter had secretly forwarded a packet of some description to the De-
partment of State intended for my injury. To any thing this man
could have said Sir I should not have troubled you with a line in
answer but as it is stated that an opinion of the District Judge of the
US in the case of the U States vs Riley has been forwarded in this
packet—it is proper that I should simply state that it was an opinion
pronounced in a moment of excitement, and which the Judge volun-
tarily proffered to withdraw from the record upon an explanation
being made to suit him by the Attorney U S. & it was not without
surprise that it was known that the said opinion was of file with the
answer of the U S Attorney.-I have the honor therefore briefly to
say that I have endeavored to discharge my official duty promptly
during the term—and that as to the matter of Riley the answer is
now forwarded & will afford with the opinion a fair view of the sub-
ject "-
I am With great respect Sir Your most obedient humble Servt
WILLIAM F STEELE U S Atty &c. &c
HoNº JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Secy of State, U States.
[Addressed] Hon" John Quincy Adams Secº of State U. S.
[Endorsed] Steele, W* F.—U. S. Dist. Att. off. Pensacola 30 May
1823 Rec. 26 June Encloses Answer to Opinion case of U.S. vs. Riley—
Innerarity—
* Acknowledged Oct. 12, 1823 (NA,WD, SW Lets. Recd., W105), with com-
ments relative to his accounts for Indian department disbursements.
*1 Present.
* No acknowledgment found.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 693
ALEXANDER SCOTT, JR., TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors:C)
Collectors Office PENSACOLA May 30. 1823
HONB" Wm H. CRAWFORD Secretary of the Treasury
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 23" ulto in relation to the clearance of Vessels from this district
laden with Live Oak or Red Cedar.” I beg leave to state that in
conformity with your instructions such enquiries shall be instituted
which may enable me to ascertain whether depredations have been
committed upon the public lands. A very considerable difficulty
however presents itself in consequence of the validity of claims to
lands in this Territory not having yet been determined upon by the
Board appointed for that purpose. Many individuals whose claims,
no doubt are indisputable, would sustain serious injury were they
prohibited from cutting Timber. The only valuable article of export,
yet under existing circumstances they are placed precisely in the same
predicament with those who actually destroy the public Timber.
Any further instructions which you may please to forward on this
subject shall be strictly attended to.”
I have the honor to be Your most Ob" St.
No signature to this letter.
NOTICE OF ELECTION FOR DELEGATE TO CONGRESS
[LC: St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, May 31, 1823]
[May 31, 1823]
The election for Delegate to Congress takes place throughout the
Territory on Monday next. The candidates are Joseph M. Hernan-
dez, Alexander Hamilton, Richard K. Call, and Farquhar Bethune,
Esqrs.”
Qualifications of Voters
A residence in the Territory on the 17th day of July 1821; or on the
12th day of August, 1822, the day of the passage of the election law
by the Legislative Council.
* Not found.
* See post, pp. 699, 701.
* The total number of votes cast in the election was 1033, being distributed
as follows: Call 496, Hernandez 252, Hamilton 249, Bethune 36. All but six
of the votes given to Call were in West Florida where he received all of the votes
cast (St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, Sept. 27, 1823). Hamilton was accused of
making improper use of his appointment as land commissioner to secure votes,
but he denied doing so. See depositions by Eusebius M. Gomez and William
Livingston, June 9, 1823 (NA, SD, Applications). See also post, pp. 703,709,716.



694 T E R R IT OR I. A L PA. P. E. R. S.
PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR DUVAL
[St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, June 7, 1823]
[June 7, 1823]
Proclamation by William P. Duval, Governor of the Territory of Florida.
WHEREAS the former acting agents for Indians Affairs, have from
time to time granted to divers persons licences to trade with the
Indian tribes within this territory, now I hereby proclaim such licences
to be null and of no avail, from and after the 20th day of this present
month, and I hereby forbid any person or persons whatsoever from
trading with any Indians within this territory from and after that date
without having previously obtained a license from Col. Humphries,
Agent for the Indians in this territory or from myself.
Given under my hand at the city of St. Augustine this seventh day
of June 1823.
WILLIAM P. DUWAL
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd. 1822–1823:ALS 4)
S* AUGUSTINE 11 June 1823
SIR Since writing you on the 26*Ult” Mº Segui and myself have
had a consultation with Several of the Principal chiefs of the Seminole
Tribe, and have fixed on the vicinity of Sº Augustine and the 5* of
September next as the place & time of holding the Treaty—An
earlier period could not have been selected without serious injury to
the Indian, by trespassing on the harvest season, and without pre-
cluding the possiblity of a general attendance from the dispersed
condition of the Florida Indians occupying a territory of more than
500 miles in extent—The absence of the Agent from Sº Marks, and the
uncertainty of letters addressed to Pensacola being received by him
in time to accomplish the views of the Commissioners, have neces-
sarily forced us to communicate direct with the different Tribes
notifying them to attend at the time and place designated—Expresses
have been dispatched in every direction, and the Indians generally
have been distinctly impressed with the idea that a Treaty of amity
settlement & limits, conformable to the views of the American govern-
ment, would be concluded, and that those Tribes who neglect the
invitation, or obstinately refuse to attend, will be Considered as
embraced within the compact formed and forced to comply with its
provisions—
* Printed also in A.S.P., Ind. Affairs, II, 433–434.
* Extract printed ibid., p. 432, to the effect that Gadsden and Segui had
conferred, and had sent a messenger for the Seminole chief in order to determine
on the time and place of meeting.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 695
You have probably been advised, or may collect from the various
reports made to the War Department on Indian Affairs in Florida;
that there is not the most friendly disposition prevailing between the
different Tribes, and that there is quite a division of opinion among
them as to their concentration and location—The Indians occupying
the Peninsula, it is believed, are pleased with the Selection, South,
made by the Executive; while those West of the Sewaney river, and
particularly within the Appalachecola district are most attached to
their own Country and would prefer it is said even an emigration West
of the Mississippi to a concentration South of Tampa Bay as con-
templated—At the head of the discontented is Eneomatla, an enter-
prising daring Savage, and if not the only, among the principal insti-
gators of the Seminole War—These conflicting interests, and opinions
will be the chief difficulties the Commissioners will have to encounter
in effecting a treaty; and although there is no doubt as to the ability
in the national Government of dictating & enforcing the terms desired;
a resort to that Alternative, as a matter of policy, may be questionable,
where the views of the Executive may be effected otherwise amicably—
Magnanimity would dictate the latter course; however necessary an
exercise of power may be in extreme cases—It has been thought proper
to present these facts to your consideration, suggesting the policy
of additional instructions to the Commissioners conditionally authoris-
ing them to provide for those Tribes that may be disposed to emigrate
West—It is possible that all the Florida Indians might be induced to
remove, and if so an object as vitally important in a national as a
territorial point of view would be gained—Florida as a maritime dis-
trict of the American union is peculiarly exposed; possessing more
than 900 miles of sea coast with Capacious bays or Estuaries easy of
access; and her good to her inferior lands bearing but a small propor-
tion and the territory consequently unsusceptible of a dense popula-
tion, she must ever be as internally weak as she is externally assailable
—An Indian population under these circumstances, connected with
another class of population which will inevitably predominate in
Florida, must necessarily add to natural weaknesses, and endanger
the security of one of the most exposed, but important frontiers of the
Union—It is useless therefore to enlarge on the policy of removing
a class of Savages from where they may prove dangerous, to where
they would be comparatively harmless—Should the Executive approve
of the views taken on this Subject, it will be necessary for the guidance
of the Commissioners, minutely to designate the district of country
West which may be offered in exchange for the Country abandoned—
In connection with the concentration of the Indians South of Tampa
Bay, there are many subjects to which your attention may with
propriety be invited—The Indians hitherto have been formidable in
Florida, and the change of flags has not removed from the Citisens all



696 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
apprehensions, or all recollections of former impressions—The location,
South, is by some thought injudicious, and though a large majority
concur with the Executive in the views taken on the Subject, all agree
that a Military Post within or near the limits of the nation will be
indispensable—The Indians have long been in the habit of keeping
up an intercourse, and active trade with the Cuba Fishermen, and to
this cause principally has been ascribed the encouragement hitherto
given to absconding negroes & savage depredations committed on
cattle Estates &c.—There is no difficulty in correcting the evil hereafter;
but the presence of a military force will be necessary to the result and
the sooner the position is selected & occupied the sooner will the excite-
ments to illict trafic be removed—The first impressions are with the
Savage most permanent, & a judicious location of an adequate force
simultaneous with the concentration of the Indians cannot but have
the happy effect of obtaining such a controul as to render them per-
fectly Subservient to the views of Government—From conversations
held with many who have explored partially the western Coast of
Florida, I am inclined to think that the Bay of Tampa presents the
most eligible site for a Military Post & offers many favourable &
healthful positions—More ample information however on the subject
shall be collected, previous to the accomplishment of the object of our
mission; in time to be acted on should the occupation of the position
suggested be approved—
Will you be good enough to issue orders to the Com" Officer at
Sº Augustine to furnish the Commissioners with a Military Guard;
issue led & powder & afford such facilities as may be thought calculated
to promote the objects of the mission
As the want of appropriation for holding a treaty must necessarily
limit the presents, always expected on such occasions, the propriety
of sending 8 or 10 Rifles to be distributed as a particular mark of
distinction to some of the principal chiefs is respectfully suggested to
your consideration
Your Obt S JAMES GADSDEN
THE HON J C CALHOUN Sey War
[Addressed] War Department Washington D Columbia [Post-
marked] St. Augustine June 10. free
[Endorsed] Gadsden, J. S." Augustine, 11 June, 1823 relative to the
contemplated treaty with the Florida Indians, &c. Answered”
* Post, p. 712.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 697
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, SW Letters Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 13 June 1823
HIS ExCELL Wºn P DUVAL St Augustine Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 27* Ult” enclosing a copy of a letter from
you to M* Dexter, and of his answer and accompanying report of the
State of the Seminole Indians, has been received.”
I observe that you have conferred the appointment of Sub-Agent
on M* Dexter. The appropriation for the Pay of Sub Agents is a
Specific one, and provides for no more than were actually in service
at the time it was made, consequently the appointment of Mº Dexter
cannot be confirmed. Cap' Pelham who holds the appointment of
Sub-Agent, & who has been for some time absent from his post (S*
Augustine) in consequence of the bad state of his health, has been
requested to report to this Department when he will probably return
to his station, and it is presumed from his last letter he will be able
to do so before long, and that when there he will be entirely competent
to perform the duties of the Indian Department under your direction
for East Florida without the appointment of an additional Sub-Agent.
Should the Office of Sub-Agent become vacant, I shall have no objec-
tion to your filling the vacancy with a suitable person who may be
agreeable to you; reporting the name of the person, however, to this
Department for its approbation. The Salary of the Sub-Agent is
fixed by law, at $500 per annum.”
I have &c J. C. C.
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA, W. F. June 13* 1823.−
GENERAL, I had the honor to receive this day your letter of the
15” Ulto.” & at the same time one from the 3" Auditor notifying me
that $5000, was in a course of remittance; the draft has not yet come
to hand. This sum, though not sufficient to liquidate all claims
against the quartermaster's department here, yet it will pay off
those debts I had contracted for building materials & other supplies,
and which I had pledged my word should be paid by the end of this
month. On these conditions I had succeeded in obtaining the articles
* NA (OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1822–1823), referring to letters of May 10 and
May 16, 1823, which are present. See ante, p. 681.
* The Secretary of War continued to believe that Pelham would recover in
time to return to Florida in September or October, and that the place would be
held open for him (the Secretary of War to Pelham, June 26, 1823, NA, OIA,
SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E). See post, p. 721.
* Ante, p. 683,



698 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
at quite as low a rate as if I had paid Cash. It will be necessary for
me to go to New Orleans for the funds on the draft when it arrives.—
In obedience to your order of 6* December last,” I took possession
of the block-houses except the one occupied by the civil authorities
which they had converted into a school-room. About ten days since
I wanted the one, occupied by the Collector, for a subsistence Store-
house, & it was accordingly given up to me; the provisions however can
be removed to one more remote from the Bay shore, which I shall
have done forthwith, and reinstate the Collector in possession. I
selected this particular house for the depot of provisions, because it
was nearer the water's edge; and also a more secure building than the
others. The Government-house I have never interfered with. There
will now remain in my possession two block-houses; and the Hospital
which I shall rent if practicable. It would be better to have the
depot of provisions at the Cantonment than in Town & I contemplate
building a Store-house there for the purpose so soon as the barracks
are finished. Suitable issuing houses for the Commissary have been
erected already. This site unites many advantages for a permanent
cantonment; for being on a navigable Bayou or Lagoon it is easily
supplied; the position is elevated and dry with abundance of excellent
Springs. The buildings are constructed in the most durable &
permanent manner; much yet remains to be done to complete them,
but when finished they will be the most comfortable in the southern
country; and they will have been built at a comparatively small
expense. I design, so soon as I can get the proper materials, to furnish
you a sketch of the country in the immediate vicinity of the Canton-
ment, extending it so as to include the Barrancas.-
Your instructions relative to the Roads which ought, or might be
opened to communicate with the interior shall be particularly attended
to. There is at present a good carriage road from this place to
Blakely, from whence is a Steam-ferry-Boat to Mobile; also a direct
road leading from here to Fort Claiborne on the Alabama River,
from whence roads communicate with every part of the interior of the
State. There is no road to Mobile point & any which can be opened
will be circuitous. There is a trail however to Red Bluffs on Mobile
Bay, from whence it is, by water, Eighteen miles to the Point. The
road of primary importance to this place & to the country generally,
penetrating into the interior in a northerly direction is that I recom-
mended to be opened to Fort Mitchell on the Chattahoochie River,
via Beeler's ferry, in my letter of the 5* Instant.” I regret that I
am not yet able to travel over these routes, & ascertain by personal
* Ante, p. 698.
* NA(WD, QMG Letters Recd.); printed in large part in Mark F. Boyd,
ed., “The First American Road in Florida; Papers Relating to the Survey and
Construction of the Pensacola-St. Augustine Highway,” Fla. Hist. Quar., xIV
(Oct. 1985), 84–89. See also post, p. 729.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 699
observation what difficulties, if any, do exist. There is not one how-
ever that I have mentioned, but of which I have some personal
knowledge & know that they are travelled by Wagons in their present
situation. Every day however increases my strength & I trust that
in a few weeks more I shall be able to examine the Country & be more
competent to give you the desired information.
I am Sir with perfect respect & esteem Y' Mo. Ob. Serv"
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
To/ BRIG: GEN: THOMAS S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. A. Washington,
D. C.
[Endorsed] Cap' Dan' E. Burch Pensacola 13” June 1823 July 10th
DANIEL BRENT TO ELIAS B. GOULD
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XX]
Department of State WASHINGTON 14 June 1823
Mr E.B. GOULD, Sº Augustine
SIR. The Secretary of State has received from Governor Duval
your accounts for publishing the Laws of the Legislative Council of
Florida during its first Session, and for advertising Notice to Officers
to give Bonds;” and by his direction, I have now the honour to return
them to you, for the following reasons; the first account being charged
by the square, whereas it ought to be charged at the same rate as you
are paid for publishing the Laws of the United States, and the last
being unaccompanied by any Certificate that the publication of the
Notice referred to was authorized or directed by any Agent of the
United States. Under these Circumstances, if you will have the
goodness to forward a new account in place of the first, with a Certif-
icate subjoined to the last, such as is suggested to be wanting, with a
pamplet copy of the Territorial Laws published in your paper, the
two accounts will be paid. It will be necessary, however, that you
should at the same time send receipts in Blank. You will be pleased
to address your Letter to the Secretary.”
I am with much Respect, Sir, Your obedº & very hu: Serº
DANIEL BRENT
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x1:LS)
U. S. Attorney's Office—W. F. PENSACOLA 16** June 1823
SIR, It is with regret that I have to state the destruction of the
Public timber in West-Florida is at this time so very considerable
that a few years continuance of the depredations to the extent hereto-
fore practised, must inevitably occasion a scarcity of the more valuable
* Not seen.
* Reply not found. See post, p. 743.



700 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
timber of this province—the live oak, red cedar & locust, which are
found indeed no where else in the U. S. in such perfection as here.
It has been Sir, my endeavor to punish the defaulters directly in
person, or indirectly by the seizure of the timber, but the timidity of
some of the executive Officers has defeated the intention and the
offenders profit largely by the impunity thus secured. The U. S.
Marshal of this District declines acting at all in the matter until
regular processes are placed in his hands so as to entitle him to mileage
&c. for the arrest. Process, in most cases of this kind cannot
possibly be issued, because of the sparseness of our population which
bars a mutual acquaintance, & the mobility of that class who are the
depredators, and who locate themselves temporarily for the purpose
of this illicit traffick—the information of these spoliations is thus
usually had from Travellers by land, or Coasting Wessels touching
here on their Voyages, so that the names of the offenders cannot be
ascertained.
It is perceived Sir, that by an Act passed at the First Session of the
Seventeenth Congress *—the President of the U. S. is authorized to
take such “measures as may be deemed adviseable for the preservation
of the timber of the U. States in Florida, I have therefore the honor
to request any proper information which may be in the Department of
State relative to this subject for nothing seems known here of any
measures taken under the said Act, and as the information of these
trespasses is usually lodged in this Office it is desirable to know the
proper course.
While remarking upon the absence of information in this matter
from the office of the U. S. Attorney in this District, it may be added
that from the sudden death of my predecessor " and the confusion
consequent upon the terrible pestilence here—that every public paper,
pamphlet &c. of this Office is missing—so that the Attorney is without
any instructions or communications whatever from either of the
Public Departments from the period of the organization of the
Government of the Floridas, down to January 1823.−If therefore
any communications have been made by either of the Public depart-
ments to the U. S. Attorney for this District, during the said time and
which are to govern in Office it will be necessary that copies should be
furnished to the present Attorney.”—
I have the honor to be Sir With the highest respect Your most
Obed" Servº
WILLIAM F STEELE
To/ HoN. JN". QUINCY ADAMs Secy of State U. S.
[Endorsed] Steele W* f. Pensacola, 16 June 1823 Recd 12th July.
Depredations upon the public timber
* Approved Feb. 23, 1822, 3 STAT. 651.
* Tipton B. Harrison.
* Reply, if any, not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 701
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U. S. Attys. & Clks. (Fla.):LS)
United States Attorney's Office W. F.
PENSACOLA 16** June 1823
SIR, I have deemed it my duty to address you upon the Subject of
the Spoliations daily committing in this Quarter of the Union upon
the Public domain.
Upon my arrival here I learned that Several Mercantile houses in
this and other places were engaged in Purchasing and shipping timber
cut upon the Public lands in W. Florida, and that their contracts were
avowedly made with the Trespassers, knowing them to be Such.
Since entering upon the duties of this Office, two Wessels have cleared
at the Custom House for New-York & Philad” having each on board
considerable quantities of Cedar and live Oak timber, which is
universally beleived to have been cut upon the Public lands.-On two
occasions I have received information that Strong parties were felling
and Squaring timber from the Public lands at the distance of 100 miles
on the Coast, eastward of this, and in one instance I was Satisfactorily
assured that a burthensome vessel from Nassau (N P.) had arrived
in the Apalachicola River with a Cargo of Salt—& was to take
a return Cargo of Timber obtained as above mentioned.—
Upon application to the Collector here to refuse clearances to Vessels
leaving such timber on board, he declines, thinking it not his duty,
& the U. S. Marshall & deputies do not deem it their duty to proceed
to arrest or Seize without a formal & regular process— and as I Know
not how far I am authorized to call upon the Naval or Military force,
the defaulters escape amid all these difficulties with perfect impunity.
These depredations are carried on now to Such an extent, that I have
held myself bound Sir, to make it the subject of a particular communi-
cation to the head of the Treasury department as a Special guardian
of the Public domain, and to solicit any instructions upon this Subject
which perchance may have been sent to my Predecessor, but which
I have never seen—From the Act passed in 1822 for the Preservation
of the Public timber in Florida, I am led to believe that Congress have
deemed it a matter of some moment and that some steps have been
taken by the President under the Act.”
I have the honor to be Sir Wery Respectfully Your most Obed” Sº
WILLIAM F. STEELE
HON. W. H. CRAWFORD Secº of the Treas” U.S.
[Endorsed] Pensacola, 16, June 1823,-W* F. Steele, (Dist. Attº)
relating to Spoilations committed & committing, upon public lands,-
&C,-No Ans,—No further steps to be taken in these cases.—
* See post, p. 726.



702 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GEORGE M. BROOKE TO THE ACTING
ADJUTANT GENERAL
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.: LS)
CAN" HoPE, 17 June 1823
SIR I have the Honor to inform you, that on the 4” of July next,
on which day the flag of the United States will be for the first time
displayed in this Cantonment—I shall call it Cantonment Clinch, in
honor of the Co" of this Regiment who planned, it, and who stands
so deservedly high with the Officers and men of his Regiment”—This
Act of the Regiment I hope will meet with the approbation of the
Commanding General and War Department
I have the honor to be Mo: Respectfully Yr. Mo: Ob St
GEO. M. BROOKE Col. USA Comdg 4* Inty
MAJ" C. J NOURSE Act: Adjº G' Washington
[Addressed] Major Charles J. Nourse, Act: Adj Gen" Washington
City, [Postmarked] Pensacola June 21 On Service Free
[Endorsed] Cant Hope 17 June 1823 Col Geo. M. Brooke 4 Rg.
Inf Reports the Cantonment by the name of “Cantonment Clinch.”
July 16. 1823"
BERNARD SEGUI ET AL. TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:DS]
S* AUGUSTINE June 23d 1823
SIR In the name and on behalf of the subscribers, we take the
liberty of enclosing you a petition to the President of the United
States from the Inhabitants of this city with a translation of the same
that you may be pleased, lay the same before the President
We have the honor to be Very respectfully Yr Obº Sv"
BERNARD SEGUI
JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ
F: J.: FATIO
John Q. ADAMS Esq." Sec” of State
[Endorsed] Relative to Charges vs A. Hamilton. Segui Bernardo
& others St Augustine, 23 June 1823 Reca 14 July. Complaint and
charges against Alexander Hamilton.
10 The command of the Fourth Infantry had been transferred on May 8, 1823,
to Col. Brooke by Col. Clinch, who had obtained a leave of absence to attend
to private business (Brooke to the Acting Adjutant General, May 12, 1823,
enclosing a regimental order of May 8, NA, WD, AGO Lets. Recd.).
7i Answered post, p. 722.



TERRITOrr or Pºor - -
º” on the twenty-ninth day of May, one thousand eight hundred
and twenty-three, personally came before me, war, as surg, May, -
of St. Augustine, Eusebius Gomez, who being duly sworn, doin *::::: i.
that on the evening ºf the 18th or 19th instant, Alexander Hamilton, in a conver!
sation with this deponent, remarked that he very much regretted his having inter-
fred in the business of the late Father Crosby, and depriving deponent's brother
the parish clergyman, John N. Gomez, of the charge of the property: and by so in:
terfering, Mr. Hamilton observed that the whole of the old inhabitants of he tºwn
were dissatisfied with him. Mr Hamilton then remarked, that as he was one ºf the
board of Land Commissioners, it was the interest of the i...habitants of the town to Vote
for him as delegate; for they generally had lots of ground the titles to which were
conditional, and if they voted fºr him it would be in his power to serve thm at the
Board in confirming their titles—but if they veted fºr Mr. Hernandez or any other
that as a man, he (Mr. Hamilton) could not but feel resentment; and when their
claims came before the Board of Commissioners, they wou'd have to depend s rictly
upon their legal titles. Mr Hamilton then requested this deponent, if he had ally
influence with the Minorcans, §: they were ignorant) to make them understand that
by giving their votes for him (Hamilton) it would be much to their advantage, as he
would then be in their fivour. Mr. Hamilton again remarked, if they do not give
their votes for me, they must expect to feel my resentment.
Subscribed and neorn before me the day and year first above written. EUSEBIUS MA. GOMEZ.
wan ERs 8Muth, Mayor.
We, the undesigned, resident citizens of St. Augustine, do hereby certify, that we have for many years been well acquainted with
Evassive Goºss, whose name appears to the annexed affidavit, and who has resided in this place for upward, rf thirty years past:
That we have always considered the said Evansmus Gomas a man of integrity, of honor, truth and veracity, and a good and worthy
citistn,
Jusro Lopez. J. M. Hawson, acquainted with Francisco De Ms Drcrs.
Joseph S Sanchez. Mr. Gomez 6 or 8 months. .AN ronro F. Trrar.
•ºwronto M1 rarez, Richard Murrar, resident 7. J. Waalron.
Bernardo Secur. years. Pedro Be Nºr, Por Don Pablo
.MNronro ("A Po. Jose B. RE res. Sabate, que no Sabe firmar, Estevan Arnau.
A. M. Mrre Do Ndo. Charles Robrov, resident 2. Joss Pomar
F. Ferre fra. years. Jarm E .4 r wav.
C. Sullr. (resident 4 years) Pedro Miranda. º R4Mun Rockro.
.Mntonio Mie R. F./ Pario. a/ Barrolone (altreros,
Yo No. M. Mrre Don Do. F. I'orrieſ. /? Joss Fernandez.
Jose X1A71 Nez. Francisco Marrn. AArrolo Massrre.
Esreyan drina v. Juan I. 1 AM 841s. Prancis Gue.
RAAron Sanchez. G. W. Per PAL L. Samuel Cook...for 3 years.
Barrolone"Maisrer. Prancisco P. Sanchez. Dowryco Carropolr.
Pedro Fusna. B. Ll Awsars. - Juax PE L Licra.
GA arre L Trrar. Bartoto Mrs Solan4. JDANIEL Hurts ear.
Juan Granopolr. John M. Fowrans. Wrilram TrA rers.
Juan Buchanr. Ramon DE 2 us wres. Elias Wallen. has been ac-
BAaroloars Ponce. Paslo Fontane, ,2. quainted with Mr. Gomer fºr upwards ºf nine
...Antonio Bara. •MNro Nro Giraldo. ºnths and has :::::::: ***
AArro Loma Marstre. Jarºſe Marrin Elr. as a manaf integrity r.
Floridanos y Compatriotas,
Uno de los deveres massagrados de todo hombre que vive en sociedad, eshacerse utila'ells.
Penetrado de esta maxima, y persuadido de haceros un servicio de bastante consideracion me presente' el 29.
del ppdo. ante el Alcalde de esta ciudad caballero Waters Smith, a dar la declaracion que da principio Weste
Manifiesto, en la que me ratifico, bien seguro de su veracidad, y de que con pruebas, que a su tiempo producire;
hare ver hasta en regiones remotas, que ne nada on habeis equivocado de quanto decis en la certificacion que me
habeis franqueado sobre mi Condueta, reputacion y caracter.
Compatriotas, el dulce lenguaje de la verdades el que ha dirijido siempre mi palabra: jamas he sido capaz
de abrigar en mi pecho nila falcedad nila impostura, y asi permitateme decir sin desdoro, que desprecio los de-
testables dictados de damned rascal, damned liar, base fabrication, con que pretende obscurecer la verdad, y deni-
grarme Mr. Hamilton, porque estos son los uticos efugios de que se valen los que, como él ven descubiertos sus
adominables designios de formar su suerte a costa de la ruina de sus semejantes.
Me seria aun mas grato el hager esta manifestacidº en idioma Yngles; pero aunque lo comprendo suficiente-
mente para entender, y darme *entender vervalmente, no lo poseo con aquella perfeccion indispensable para es-
cribirlo, y tanpoco ha querido molestar a ninguno de sus amigos. Vuestro afectisimo Conciudadano.
San Agustin, Florida Oriental, 2 de Junio de 1823. EUSEBIO MA. GOMEZ.
[transLAtion.]
Floridians and Fellow Citizens.-One of the most sacred duties of mankind in society, is that of making
themselves useful to it.— Penetrated with this maxim and persuaded that I should render you a service of the
greatest importance, I presented myself on the 29th ultimo to the mayor of this City Waters Smith, Esq. for the
purpose of making an affadavit, the same which begins this manifesto, and which I confirm, being perfectly convin-
<ed of its truth, of which in proper time I will produce such proofs as will convince the world that you are notmis-
taken in your certificate of my conduct, reputation and character.
Fellow citizens, the language of truth has been ever my guide, my breast has been incapable of fostering an
untruth, and permit me to say, without a blemish on my reputation, that I despise the detestable language of
damned rascal.” “damned iar,” and “base fabrication,” with which Mr. Hamilton wishes to veil the truth
and defame me, as these are the only subterfuges which those, like himself, use when they find their abominable
designs of making their fortune on the ruin of their ſellow creatures, discovered:
It would be more grateful to me to present this statement to you in the English language, but although I am ac-
quainted with it sufficiently to understand and to be understood verbally, I do not possess it with that perſection so
for writing it, neither have I wished to trouble my friends on the subject.
necessary to g it, Your affectionate Fellow citizen, EUSEBIUS MA. GOMEZ.
Having seen the above in the Spanish language, before going to the press, I have
taken the liberty of making a translation of the same for the benefit of my friends
and countrymen. A FLORIDIAN.






F L OR I D A T. E. R. R. IT" O RY 703
Enclosure:DS)
Petition to the President by Inhabitants of St. Augustine
June 12, 1823)
ExMo. SoR. Dº JAYME MoNROE Presidente de los Estados Unidos
SEÑOR, Los que subscriben Habitantes de San Agustín de la Florida
Oriental y propietarios de fincas asi urbanas como rurales á V. E.
respetuosamente exponen: Que están entendidos que V.E. ha tenido á
bien nombrárá Don Alexandro Hamilton para que sea uno de los trés
que han de componer la comisión que ha de exáminár los titulos y
concesiones de terrenos hechas por el Gobierno Español a los Habi-
tantes de éste Territorio.
Señor, el admirable silencio con que en todos tiempos han sufrido
los exponentes el yugo de la advitrariedad y despotismo és una prueva
bien convincente de su natural pacifico, de su sumisión á las Leyes y
de su respeto y obedienciá a las autoridades, de cuyos buenos princi-
pios jamás han pensado desviarse los Floridanos Orientales; pero
Exmo Señor, haced que terminen en parte aquellas desgraciadas
épocas, y permitid le digan á V. E. que el referido Don Alexandro
Hamilton no posee aquellas buenas cualidades y circumstancias que
deven adornár á un Empleado publico que, segun él mismo ha dicho,
está en su facultád él decidír de la suerte de casi toda ésta Población;
y que abusando de la bondad de V. E. és decir, valiendose del nom-
bramiento de Comisionado para el exámen de las concesiones de
tierras se ofreció Candidato para sér el representante de ambas
Floridas, persuadido que ó bién con amenazas ó con ofertas ilusorias
podria ofuscár la parte más sana de ésta Población para que le dieran
sus sufragios como lo ha hecho con los incautos y leventes.
Los que representan están bien seguros de que en ninguna manera
puedan, ni deven presentár sus titulos a la Comisión de terrenos
mientras dicho Hamilton sea uno de ella, por que seria exponerse al
resentimiento con que yá los tiene amenazados, segun con toda
claridad lo manifiestan los Documentos que acompañan á V. E.
marcados con los numeros Faltan los números
En vista de prueves tan evidentes y confiados en la justificasión y
rectitud de V. E. rendidamente le suplican que teniendo la bondad de
dispensarles el hacer ésta exposición en Español por sér el Idioma qº
mejór poseen, se sirva deponer de la Comisión de terrenos a Don
Alexandro Hamilton, y nombrár en su lugár á la persona que fuere
del agrado de V. E.—



704 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
San Agustin de la Florida 12. de Junio de 1823–
Bernardo Segui Esteban Arnau
franco Pelliser Jose Andreu
José B. Reyes John Gianople
Franco P. Sanchez Bartolo Mestre
Fran” J. fatio. Ant” Jose Triay
Antonio Miers Pablo Sabaté
Franco Ferreira Bartome Solana
Franco J. DeMédicis Miguel Papy
Jose Pomar Anastacio Andreu
Andres Burgevin Juan F. Gonzalez
Juan A. Cavedo. Pedro Fucha
Daniel Hurlburt Gaspar X Arnau
Franco Marin Jose Hernandez
Pab" f Fontane Benito Seguy
Jose S. Sanchez Fran” Rogers
Francis Gué Jayme Arnau
Andres X Pacetty Jose Hernandez
Pedro Benet Domingo Cercopoly
Bartolome Pons Gabriel triay
Antonio Bean Gabriel Perpall
Jose Pacetty John M. Fontane
Jose Manusy Bºnº Castro y Ferrer
[Endorsed] with B. Sequi and others letter of 23 June 1823.
[Contemporary Translation]
To James Monroe President of the United States
The undersigned, inhabitants of St. Augustine East Florida and
Land Holders respectfully sheweth, that they understand you have
been pleased to appoint Colonel Alexander Hamilton as one of the
three Commissioners for the examination and adjudication of grants
made by the Spanish Government to the inhabitants of this Territory.
The admirable silence with which your Petitioners have at all times
suffered the yoke of despotism and oppression is at once a convincing
proof of their pacific disposition, with submission to the Laws and
respects and obedience to the authorities, from which maxims the
Floridians have never swerved—but, Sir, terminate in part those
unfortunate Epochs, and permit your petitioners to say that the above
named Col. Alexander Hamilton does not possess those good qualities
that ought to adorn a Public Officer, who as he has stated, has it in his
power to decide the fate of nearly all the inhabitants; and abusing your
goodness, that is to say, taken advantage of the appointment of Land
Commissioner he offered himself as a Candidate for Delegate to
represent the Territory of Florida, persuaded that either by threats,



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 705
or delusive offers he could blind the greatest part of the well meaning
inhabitants for the purpose of obtaining their suffrages, as he has
done with the incautious, and transient persons—
Your Petitioners are well aware that they cannot in any wise, nor
ought they to present their Titles to the Land Commissioners whilst
said Hamilton is a member thereof, as it would expose them to the
resentment with which he has threatened them, and which he has
clearly manifested, as is seen in the accompanying documents num-
bered 1. & 2*
Agreeable therefore to proofs so evident and confiding in the
Justice and rectitude of your Excellency, your petitioners humbly
request you will be pleased excuse their having addressed you in
Spanish, as being the Language most familiar to them, and at the same
time to depose Col: Alexander Hamilton as Land Commissioner and
name any other person you may think proper, and your Petitioners
as in duty bound will ever pray—
St. Augustine 12* June 1823–
[Endorsed] with B. Segui and others letter of 23 June 1823.
DAVID PORTER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:HR, Orig. Reports, TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.: Cººl
(Copy.] Sea Gull, ALLENTON, June 24* 1823.
SIR: I have the honor to send for you information, copy of a letter
to the Captain General of Cuba,” which so fully explains the object
of writing it, that it leaves little more for me to say, than that I hope
the course pursued by me will meet your approbation.”
*The depositions of Eusebio M* Gomez & Wºn Levingston. [Marginal note
on the MS. Both depositions are present.]
* Printed also in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess., p. 19. Not found in the Navy
Department records.
* Variously dated letters from Porter to this official are enclosed with the
former's letters to the Secrtary of the Navy(NA, ND, SN, Captains’ Lets.).
* Commodore Porter was appointed on Feb. 1, 1823, to the command of the
West Indian squadron with instructions to suppress piracy and protect American
citizens and commerce in the West Indies and the Gulf of Mexico and to establish
a naval depot on Key West for supplying the vessels of the squadron (A. S. P.,
Naval Affairs, II, 144–145, 203–204, 381–382; the instruction of Feb. 1 is also
printed in A. S. P., For. Rels., V, 501-502; Gardner W. Allen, Our Navy and the
West Indian Pirates, Salem, Mass., 1929, 99–102; David D. Porter, Memoir of
Commodore David Porter, of the United States Navy, (Albany, 1875), 278–281;
and in Caspar F. Goodrich, “Our Navy and the West Indian Pirates, a Docu-
mentary History,” U. S. Naval Inst. Proc., xliiI [Mar. 1917) 494–496). The
Navy Department's record copy is in NA (ND, SN, Lets. to Officers Ships of
War, Bk. 14). The naval depot was established on Key West early in April 1823
(Porter to the Secretary of the Navy, Apr. 16, 1823, A. S. P., Naval Affairs, I,
301867–57–46



706 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I am under the impression that the practice of wrecking Spanish
vessels on our coast, by Colombian cruisers, in order to secure their
cargoes, has, for a long time past, been pursued to a considerable
extent, and that the establishment at Key Vacas was made with this
object chiefly in view.
I feel myself somewhat at a loss how to act in this business, which
appears to be one of peculiar delicacy. I thought that the first proper
step was to remove all cause of suspicion and complaint from the
authorities of Cuba, reserving to myself the right of acting as cir-
cumstances might hereafter make necessary.
I beg your early instructions on this subject both as regards the
disposal of the property and the course I ought to pursue toward the
cruiser, (which claims the character of a Government vessel,) if she
should be detected, and the individuals (aiders and abettors) residents
at Key Wicas.
The goods from that place are, invariably, I am informed, sent to
Norfolk, where, it is likely, a strict scrutiny might detect a more
extensive concern.
1107–1108; NA, ND, SN Captains’ Lets., 1823, Bk. 6). For other corre-
spondence of Commodore Porter, his subordinate officers, and the Secretary of the
Navy relative to the operations of the West India squadron during 1823, con-
taining occasional references to activities on Key West, see A. S. P., Naval Affairs,
I, 1103–1121, II, 221–230; some of this correspondence is also printed in Goodrich,
loc. cit. Still other letters concerning the squadron appear in A. S. P., op. cit.,
I, 989–1003. The manuscript copies of the letters received from Porter, which are
considerably more numerous than those published in the places cited, are to be
found in NA (ND, SN, Captains' Lets., 1823, I-VI); letters to him from the
Secretary of the Navy are in NA(ND, SN Lets. to Officers Ships of War, Bk.
14, 15). Additional letters concerning the West Indian squadron can be found in
the correspondence files of the Board of Navy Commissioners. These as well as
the records of the office of the Secretary of the Navy are described in U.S. National
Archives, Record Group No. 45: Naval Records Collection of the Office of Naval
Records and Library; Preliminary Checklist of the Naval Records Collection of the
Office of Naval Records and Library 1775–1910, comp. by James R. Masterson
(Washington, 1945). At the end of 1824 Commodore Porter was recalled to
Washington for an investigation of his transactions at Foxardo, Puerto Rico
connected with the suppression of piracy. Several compilations of documents
that resulted from the court of inquiry and the court martial that were held in the
following year contain numerous references to Key West where the West Indian
squadron was based. See the following works: Robert Beale, A Report of the
Trial of Commodore David Porter . . . before a General Court Martial (Washing-
ton, 1825); David Porter, An Exposition of the Facts and Circumstances Which
Justified the Expedition to Fozardo and the Consequences Thereof. Together with
the Proceedings of the Court of Inquiry Thereon, Held by Order of the Hon. Secretary
of the Navy (Washington, 1825); David Porter, Minutes of Proceedings of the
Courts of Inquiry and Court Martial, in Relation to Captain David Porter: Convened
at Washington, D. C., on Thursday, the Seventh Day of July A. D. 1825 (Wash-
ington, 1825); Memoir, David Porter, passim; A. S. P., Naval Affairs, II, 132—440.
Other manuscript documents are to be found in the correspondence files of the
Secretary of the Navy in NA.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 707
As wrecking, on this coast, is a business of great importance, and
extensively carried on, I should be glad to be informed whether there
are any laws to regulate it. Previous to my coming here, the neigh-
boring Keys were much frequented by English wreckers who took the
property to New Providence, but the detention of two of them by
Lieut. Com" Watson "occasioned an alarm which has since kept them
from the coast. A correspondence took place between the Governor
of Bahama and myself on the subject which I have the honor to
enclose you.
It is my opinion that much smuggling, if not already practised
will be attempted. It is out of the power of any Custom House
officer here to prevent it; and, having had some experience in these
matters while at New Orleans, I know that, without being clothed with
some authority from the Treasury Department, I can not lawfully
make a seizure. Whatever powers are given to me I will exercise
whenever the public interest may require it, and I solicit from you
early instructions how I am to proceed.”
I have the honor to be, With great respect, Your obdnt servant,
(Signed) DAVID PORTER
HON. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY. True copy. (Sign'd) P. Wilson
DAVID PORTER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
[NA:HF, Orig. Reports, TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.:C 77]
U. S. Galliot Sea Gull,
ALLENTON, Thompson's Island. June 24* 1823.
SIR: Apprehending that the Secretary of the Navy may be absent
from Washington, I have taken the liberty of sending you a copy of
my communication to him on a subject which claims an early
attention.
The absence of the Collector and Inspector, and the death of the
Deputy Collector has left no protection here to the Revenue but
myself. I have not allowed vessels coming from foreign ports to
land their cargoes, but have sent them elsewhere, persuaded, as I am,
that there can be no motive in their doing so, but the interest which
they hope to derive from illicit practices.
To vessels going coast-wise I give a certificate stating the cargo,
if any, and the fact that there are no revenue officers there.
There are no Custom House fees collected however, and this is the
only inconvenience felt from the want of a Collector, a consideration
not worth taking into account as the number of vessels which arrive
and departis so limited.
75 William H. Watson.
* Answered post, p. 723.
17 Printed also in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess., p. 19.



708 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
I have the honor to be, with great respect Your ob'dnt Servant
(Signed) D. PORTER.
HON W H CRAWFORD.
[Endorsed] Nº 22. Thompsons Island, June 24* 1823. Commodore
Porter advising of the course pursued by him in regard to vessels
arriving at that place in the absence of the Collector and other Revenue
officer. with enclosure
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 24. June 1823.
DEAR SIR. I take the liberty to enclose a correspondence which
took place between M* Rodman and myself immediately upon my
return—
You have also an electioneering affidavit made under the auspices
of Joseph M. Hernandez as interpreter together with one from me in
reply—The conversation attributed to me by Mr. Gomez was un-
doubtedly attributed to some of my friends and as unquestionably
remonstrated against by me—If I had been disposed I could have
secured my election through two individuals deeply interested in
grants. The charge against me is too idle an attack upon my under-
standing to be noticed other than as a satisfaction to yourself—The
Grantees well know that my integrity is unimpeachable and are
imposing upon a few ignorant Minorcans who are in possession of city
lots that are unquestionably private property—
I have formed no opinion nor do I entertain any prejudice in
hostility to any discription of claims—
Permit me to add that this is a most despicable community. I mean
the inhabitants of Sº Augustine—
By the enclosed notice you will percive, the Spanish Consul is
inviting his countrymen to embark for Cuba"—This day 29 persons
sail for the Havana and in the course of the week a large Schooner
loaded with passengers will depart—
I beg you will excuse the intrusion, I should have addressed myself
to Doctor Everett, but I am not aware that he is at present with you—
With much esteem your Ob Sevt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
[Addressed) James Monroe Esq.
[Endorsed] Mr Hamilton St Aug:
* Present in the form of an unidentified newspaper clipping.



FL, OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 709
[Enclosure:ADS]
Affidavit by Alexander Hamilton
[May 31, 1823]
Territory of Florida City of Sº Augustine
On the thirty first day of May one thousand eight hundred and
twenty three, personally appeared Alexander Hamilton before me
Joseph L. Smith Judge of the Superior Court, who being duly sworn
doth depose and say that he never did remark in any conversation
with Eusebio M* Gomez, that he regretted having deprived John N
Gomez of the charge of the estate of the deceased Michael Crosby,
but that on the contrary he informed him that he regretted there
should exist any prejudice with the Minorcans in relation to the part
he took in that transaction, which as a public officer he was obliged
to do and also informed the said Gomez that as the Counsel of the
Heirs of Michael Crosby, the claim of his brother John N Gomez
could not be allowed and that he must make his claim through the
law—And this deponent doth further say that when conversing with
the said Gomez in reference to the approaching election, he complained
of the unfairness of Joseph M. Hernandez and his friends, in attempting
to excite prejudice against the deponent, in consequence of his being
a Commissioner and he doth solemnly swear that he never did intimate
or declare to the said Gomez “that as he was one of the board of Land
Commissioners, it was the interest of the inhabitants of the Town to
vote for him as Delegate; for they generally had lots of ground the
titles to which were conditional and if they voted for him, it would
be in his power to serve them at the board in confirming their titles,
but if they voted for Hernandez or any other person, that as a man
he could not but feel resentment and when their claims came before
the Land Commissioners they would have to depend strictly upon
their legal titles”—And that he never did intimate directly or indirectly
to the said Gomez that the Minorcans were to expect either favour
or resentments from whatever part they should take in the election,
but that on the contrary he has freequently cautioned his friends to
avoid making assertions of such a character and that he unequivocally
and expressly declared to John B. Strong Esq. that his feelings never
could be biassed or influenced by such considerations and this De-
ponent doth challenge any person to assert that he has ever in the
most distant manner held out any allurements or offered any induce-
ments as Land Commissioner or otherwise as the consideration of
their support and this Deponent doth further say that he has requested
the friends of the Gentlemen applying for the Secretaryship of the
Board of Commissioners, not to converse with him on that subject,



710 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
as he was determined not to commit himself until the arrival of his
colleagues. - --
Sº Augustine 31 May 1823
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
Sworn before me at S*Augustine the 31 May 1823 (Signed) Joseph L
Smith
JOS. L. SMITH.
I have commenced a suit for a Libel against Eusebio Gomez and
one for a Conspiracy against the same person and Joseph M. Hernan-
dez. Eusebio Gomez is comparetively a stranger to me—
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
[Enclosures]
John Rodman to Alexander Hamilton
St AUGUSTINE 1" May 1823
SIR D Simmons having called on me this morning and demanded,
in your behalf, personal satisfaction for a publication issued by me,
and alleged to contain reflections injurious to your Character, I replied
to him, that I could not consistently with my principles, consider it
as one of the few cases in which such a resort is Justifiable.
Considering it, however, as due to that Justice which I always wish
to practice; and Yielding also, to the desire of our mutual friends, I
observed, that I would willingly submit all the Circumstances of the
Case to Gentlemen of honor and probity, by whose decision I would
be guided.
Understanding from Dº S. in the course of our conversation, that
you considered me as the Agressor, by the note which I addressed
to you, apprising you of my having been employed to Commence
a suit against you for a Libel; and perfectly recollecting that I had
not the remotest intention of offending you, by that notification, I
have no hesitation in saying that I did not, in the letter referred to,
design to Convey the slightest injury to your feelings. Your reply,
it appears, from what D* S. has stated to me, was founded upon a
mistaken apprehension of my meaning. Having given this explana-
tion of the purport of the note in question, you will, I trust, see that
it is due to Justice and to my feelings to acknowledge that your letters
to me were written under an erroneous impression.
The suit instituted against you having been brought in a Court
now abolished, I am disposed to do every thing in my power consistent
with my professional duty to put a stop to it.
I am, Sir, Your obt. Servt.
(sign'd) J. RODMAN
ALEX' HAMILTON Esq.



F L OR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 711
Alexander Hamilton to John Rodman
Sº AUGUSTINE 24 May 1823
SIR, Your letter of this morning I have received, disavowing any
intention to give offence in the communication therein referred to;
the occasion of the difference you seem disposed to repair; I can con-
sequently have no hesitation in admitting that my letters must have
been founded upon erroneous impressions.
Yr Ob. St
(Sign'd) ALEXANDER HAMLITON
JOHN RODMAN Esq.” Collector
John Rodman to Alexander Hamilton
Sº AUGUSTINE 24 May 1823–
SIR In reply to your letter of this days date, which I have Just
received, allow me to state, that the publication you complain of, and
the reflections which it Contains upon your understanding and Char-
acter, originated in the injured feelings excited by the letters which
you addressed to me, from a misapprehension (as you acknowledge,
under the explanations I have given) of the meaning of my first note;
and also from various exasperating reports brought to me respecting
your intentions against my interest and Character. The publication,
at that time, I thought but a Just retaliation. Those groundless
charges then, sprang solely from feelings of resentment.
In thus giving them their proper Character I make every Concession
to truth and Justice towards both our Characters required, and which
your Own Candor will Justly appreciate.
Respectfully Your Obt Serv"
(Sign'd) J. RoDMAN
ALEXANDER HAMILTON Esq.”
[Endorsed] Correspondence between Alexander Hamilton & John
Rodman
COMMISSION OF JOSEPH M. WHITE AS LAND
COMMISSIONER (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Temp. Comms. Pres., etc.]
[June 26, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting: -
Know Ye, That in pursuance of An Act of Congress passed on the
eighth day May A. D. 1822, entitled “An Act for ascertaining claims
and titles to land within the Territories of Florida,” and reposing
special Trust and Confidence in the Integrity, Ability and Diligence



712 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
of Joseph M. WHITE of Florida,” I do appoint him one of the Com-
missioners for the purposes expressed in the said Act, with all the
powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining
unto him the said Joseph M. White, until the end of the next Session
of the Senate of the United States and no longer.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty Sixth day of June A. D. 1823; and of the Independence of
the United States of America the Forty Seventh.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JoHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES GADSDEN
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E *]
DEPMT OF WAR 30 June 1823
COL”. JAMES GADSDEN, Commissioner &c. Sº Augustine E. F.
SIR, Your letter of the 11” inst has been received.”
I agree with you as to the importance to the Territory of Florida
of removing the Indians west of the Mississippi; but there are no lands
which the Government can assign to them in lieu of those they may
abandon, as all the public lands in that direction, that could be so
disposed of, are occupied either by the Cherokees or Choctaws. The
Government is, however, willing to encourage the removal of the
Florida Indians as far as it can, and if all, or any part of them should
be disposed to emigrate, and join the Cherokees or Choctaws or any
other tribe farther west, that may be willing to receive them, you are
authorized to include a stipulation in the proposed treaty on the sub-
ject, allowing them in the event of their emigration what may be
deemed by the Commissioners a fair consideration for the lands relin-
quished by them in Florida, and agreeing on the part of the United
States to pay the expenses attending their removal.
Your suggestion relative to the establishment of a military post
will receive due attention.
* This recess commission was sent to White, June 30, 1823 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets., XX). It was acknowledged by him on July 25 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
See post, p. 808. A similar commission was issued to John B. C. Lucas on July 3,
1823 (NA, SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.), and sent to him on the same date (NA,
SD, Dom. Lets., XVIII). He replied on Aug. 1, 1823, declining the appointment
(NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
* Printed also in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 434–435,
* Ante, p. 694,



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 713
Orders will be given agreeably to your request thro' the Adjutant
General to the Commanding Officer at St Augustine to furnish the
Commissioners with a military guard.
The Rifles required for the presents at the treaty will be furnished
thro’ the Ordnance Department.
The President has directed that the Governor of the Territory
as is usual be associated with the Commissioners at the proposed
treaty, and he will join you accordingly and aid in the negociation.
He was not put on the Commission originally on account of his absence
from the Territory.”
The Indian Agent has been ordered to repair to St Augustine, where
he will be stationed until further orders, which will enable the Com-
missioners to avail themselves of his services.”
I have &c J. C. C.
DAVID PORTER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Captains’ Lets., 1823, Bk. 8:LS)
Sea Gull, ALLENTON June 30” 1823.
SIR, I have the Honor to enclose copy of communication made to
the Captain General of Cuba.”
I have caused the Goods of the Schooner I had detained to be landed
here and placed under a guard. The Schooner I have liberated.
There is a necessity for a Lieutenant's Guard of Marines to be Sta-
tioned at Key Vacas with two pieces of Cannon to preserve order
among the numerous Wreckers Fishermen from Havana &c, totally
unrestrained by any law, Who are in the habit of visiting that place.
For the want of such a guard a murder of a most atrocious character
was committed by a Spanish Fisherman on one of the inhabitants a
short time since.
The murderer was sent to me and I have him in confinement.
At present I can only spare a guard of Six men. The Guns and
ammunition I can Send from here. - - -
I have the Honor to be With great respect your Ob" Serv"
D PORTER
P. S. I have just ordered a field piece with its equipments, to be
taken on board the Wild Cat to left at Key Vacas.
HoNº" SECRETARY, OF THE NAVY.
[Endorsed] Allenton June 30. 1823 Com° D. Porter Encloses copy
of a communication made to the Capt. Gen' of Cuba—Has caused
goods from the Sch’ he detained, to be landed—is a necessity for a
Lieut" Guard of Marines to be stationed at Key Vacas.--&" &"
* See ante, p. 713.
* No acknowledgment found. See post, p. 719.
* Present.



714 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
GEORGE GIBBS TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Territory of Florida S” AUGUSTINE June 30. 1823
FoNTAINE MAURY Esq."
DEAR SIR I beg the favor of you in behalf of G. W. Perpall, F. J.
Fatio Esq. and myself, that you will have the goodness to present the
inclosed accounts for our services as Judges of the Election to the
proper office for payment, and if paid a remittance to either will be
satisfactory—we are aware that a Certificate of the Services are
generally required—but in this case we have been at a loss as to whom
we should apply for it, and send it therefore without.—
With great respect Your most obed" servt
GEO: GIBBS
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq. Secretary of States office Wash-
ington City [Postmarked] St. Augustine July 8 Paid 50
[Enclosures:DS)
Bill of Gabriel W. Perpall, George Gibbs, and Francis J. Fatio
[October 3, 1822)
The Territory of Florida To Gabriel W. Perpall & George
Gibbs . . . D**
1822 Sep 30th
To our services as Judges of the Election for a delagate to
Congress, held by appointment of His Excellency the
Governor in the City of Sº Augustine on the 30° Sep'
and the 1* & 2" of October, open from 8. Oclock A. M. to
6. Oclock P. M. at $7. each p day . . . . . . . . . . . $42. –
To Francis J. Fatio acting as clerk of D* @ 3$ . . . . . . . 9.
To E. B. Gould (Printer) advertising Sta” &c . . . . . . . . 10.
- $61.00
Territory of Florida S' AUGUSTINE October 3° 1822.
- GAB' W. PERPALL
GEO: GIBBS
F. J. FATIO,
Bill of Gabriel W. Perpall, George Gibbs, and Francis J. Fatio
[June 5, 1823]
Territory of Florida To Gabriel W. Perpall, George Gibbs & Fra"
J. Fatio Drº
1823. June
To our Services as Judges of the Election for a delagate to
Congress held by appointment of his Excellency the



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 715
Governor in the City of Sº Augustine on the 2° 34 & 4”
days of June 1823, open from 8. Oclock A. M. to 6. Oclock
P. M. 3 days at $7. each p day. . . . . . . . . . . . . $63. —
To John A. Caveda acting as Clerk (3) $3. . . . . . . . . 9. —
To E. B. Gould (Printer) advertiseing, notices Sta" & " . . . 4.—
$76.00
Territory of Florida S*AUGUSTINE June 5, 1823.
GAB' W. PERPALL
GEO: GIBBS
f: J: fáTIO
RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:C)
LEGISLATIVE CouncIL July 5* 1823
Whereas reports have gone abroad injurious to the public character
of his Excellency Governor Duval, and as the said reports in the
opinion of the Legislative Council are totally unfounded—Be it there-
fore resolved by the Legislative Council of Florida, That the conduct
of his Excellency has met their warmest approbation—and that they
express their thanks to him for his uniform courteous and Conciliatory
demeanour during the present Session of the Council “
GEO. MURRAY President of the Legislative Council
Attested F. J. Fatio Clerk (A Copy)
[Endorsed] Florida, 1823 July 5. Geo. Murray's statement relative
to Gov" Duval
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JOEL YANCEY
[NA:HF, Orig. Reports, TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.:C *]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT. July 9, 1823.
SIR: The gentleman whom you left at Key West as Deputy Col-
lector, has died since your departure from it.” I understand that he
caught the yellow fever at Havana, and died shortly after his return.
Your presence is therefore indispensable; the more so as the revenue
Cutter is now ready for service.
Until you arrive, or until another Deputy can be appointed, all
business at the Custom House must be suspended. I have had several
intimations that a plan was in contemplation to enter coffee and
* A letter from Joseph M. White to the President, Nov. 18, 1823 (LC, Monroe
Papers), recommended relieving contentions in Florida by replacing the Governor
with a man of commanding reputation and exercising care in the selection of other
officers.
* Printed also in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess., p. 17.
* Joseph Dawley. See post, p. 723.



716 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
other West India articles there for re-shipment to other ports of the
Union. As it is difficult to conceive any fair or honest motive for
such a course, the suspicion naturally arises that illicit practices will
be resorted to by those who engage in it. It will therefore be an
imperious duty to exercise the strictest inspection, and the utmost
vigilance as to the solvency of those who offer themselves to bond
duties at the Custom House. The best security among persons of
doubtful credit will be a deposite of a sufficient portion of the mer-
chandise to secure the payment of the duties.
I am &c (Signed) WM H CRAWFORD
JoEL YANCEY, Esq. Collector Key West, Glasgow, Ken.
[Endorsed] No. 19 July 9° 1823. To Joel Yancey, Esq. Collector,
Key West recommending Strict inspection & vigilance as to the
solvency of persons offering to bond goods.
JUDGE SMITH TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
CHARLESTON S. C. 9th July. 1823.
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE U. STATES
SIR, Before I left Augustine, I learnt that a statement respecting
Colonel Hamilton, had been secretly circulated obtained various sig-
natures of Minorcans and Spaniards resident in Augustine and been
forwarded to you.”
The statement it was understood, consisted of allegations or declara-
tions, claimed to have been made by Col Hamilton, pending the late
Election in Florida, as to the course he would pursue as Commissioner
of Land Claims, in regard to those Electors who might vote for or
against him on that occasion, and ended with a request to the President
of the United States for his removal.
The Election was attended with great warmth & personal excite-
ment. Mr Hamilton was one of the Candidates—And from this fact,
& the strong attachment of the Spaniards and Minorcans to M* Her-
nandez the other Candidate, have been produced all the false impres-
sions and misapprehensions, which have led to the statement against
Col Hamilton. But I do not believe Sir, that there is a person of
intelligence & integrity in Augustine who doubts the official honour
& integrity of Col Hamilton—or who unexcited by passionate feelings,
produced as I have stated, would have made an allegation against him.
His appointment as Commissioner was acceptable and popular in
East Florida—It still may be viewed substantially so—the excitement
must soon pass off, which grew out of the Election—M* Gomez to
whom Mº Hamilton was said to have made the objectionable remarks
* Ante, p. 703.



FLORIDA. T E R R I TOR Y 717
has but a very limited knowledge of English, and is most liable to
misapprehend what he hears in that Language—On his own applica-
tion I excused him from serving as a Juror, because as he said his
knowledge of the English language was too deficient.
I know nothing against the integrity of M* Gomez—he is called an
honest man—but I believe with those here, who best know M* Ham-
ilton, that the utmost reliance may be placed on his integrity—&
that his official duties will be discharged faithfully.
I have taken the liberty Sir, to write this letter, from a regard to
justice, & in the hope that it may prevent any undeserved impression
being made on your mind, from the communication, which it is
supposed you have received. I was not the partisan of Col Hamilton
at the late Election—I was not a voter—and I now address you Sir,
without his knowledge & without intending that he shall know that
I have written to you on this subject.”
I have the honour to be Sir With great respect Your Obedt. Servt.
JOSEPH L. SMITH Judge S. C. East Florida
[Endorsed] July 9. 1823 Judge Smith St Aug.
SAMUEL R. OVERTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA 10th July, 1823.
SIR; I have patiently remained here until this time, under the
expectation, either that Colo. Preston would arrive, or the vacancy
occasioned by the resignation of Maj' Ware be filled,” so that a Board
might be formed, and enabled to proceed in the execution of their
Commission. In this calculation, I have been much disappointed.
I have not yet been advised who will succeed Maj' Ware, or when
the arrival of Colo. Preston may be expected. This state of things is
to be regretted the more, inasmuch as the claimants are extremely
solicitous to have their titles ascertained and adjusted, and as we
have been already exposed to unusual delay in the accomplishment of
this object. Besides, the United States are greatly interested in
expediting the business of the Commissioners, so as to bring it to an
early close, and enable them speedily to expose their lands to sale.—
I have already recommended several persons to fill the vacancy of
Maj' Ware, as well as that of Colo. Preston, should it occur. I feel
myself again urged to call your attention to this subject, and should
it be considered too inportunate, I am in hopes you will excuse it, and
attribute it to a sincere desire to progress with the performance of
my duties. To continue here during the Summer and Fall, exposed
to the diseases incident to those seasons in this climate, without any
* Reply, if any, not found.
* No letter of resignation found.



718 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
prospect of forming a Board, is a delay which is extremley discouraging
and painful, and from which I should be much pleased to be relieved.—
Mº Joseph M. White of this place, has been repeatedly pressed upon
your attention, as better qualified to fill either of those vacancies,
than any individual who could be selected. He is a gentleman in
whom the people here repose every confidence, and his appointment,
I am assured, would meet with universal approbation. He was
recommended because he was known to you, and from a consciousness
of his qualifications. A regard to the intraests of the claimants and
the United States, again constrain me to urge the appointment of
Mr White to fill the first vacancy that is presented. It is particularly
desirable as it respects the speedy and faithful execution of our duties.
If two new members of the Board join me, who are unacquainted with
the laws and ordinances of Spain &c. in the distribution of lands,
almost the whole burthen, at this stage of the business, will be thrown
upon me.” This is more than my present state of health would bear,
impaired as it has been by the irregularities and inclemency of the past
seasons. With the aid of M* White, who is well acquainted with the
duties to be performed, we could proceed with but little difficulty.
No delay could arise, as he is on the spot, and the whole business could
be taken up and dispatched with fidelity and promptitude. I should
be greatly gratified to find, that these views have met your approba-
tion.”—
With evry sentiment of respect & esteem, I am y' mo. Obt Sevt.
SAM" R. OVERTON
HIS EXE'Y. JAMES MONROE, P. U. S.
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe, President of U. States,
Washington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola July 12 Free
[Endorsed] Overton S. R. Pensacola, 10 July 1823 Recd 7th Appoint-
ment of M* White: Dpt of State If there is cause to suspect that Mr
White's comm has miscarried let another be sent JM
9. In NA(SD, Applications) are recommendations to fill these positions. Col.
Thomas H. Bradford, of Kentucky, was recommended for land commissioner in
West Florida in a letter to the President, July 30, 1823, from Georgetown, Ky.,
signed by J. T. Johnson, Elijah Craig, H. W. Rankins, Robert M. Ewing, J. F.
Robinson, and W. Warren. Overton and White recommended to the Secretary
of State, Oct. 3, 1823, Morrison Hunter, who was then secretary to the board and
who had been a judge in Alabama. Overton also wrote to the President on behalf
of Hunter, Oct. 18, 1823.
* Later in the year Overton and White wrote a letter which was laid before the
House of Representatives by the Speaker on Dec. 3, 1823, in which they asked
for an extension of time for the completion of their duties until Sept. 1, 1824
(House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 26). A resolution was adopted by the
House on Dec. 15, instructing the Committee on Public Lands to inquire into the
expediency of extending the time limit for settling land claims in E. and W. Fla.
(ibid., p. 63). See the act approved Feb. 28, 1824 (4 STAT. 6–7).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 719
FRANCIS H. GREGORY TO DAVID PORTER
[NA:ND, SN, Captains’ Lets., 1823, Bk. 4:C*]
(Copy) U.S. Schooner Grampus.
THOMPSON'S ISLAND July 12* 1823.
SIR, In obedience to your Order of the 4* inst., I proceeded towards
Key Vaccas, for the purposes therein mentioned: beating up inside
the reef, I came in Sight of an Armed Schooner, With two other Small
Wessels at Anchor near Loo Key at 11 A.M. on the 5* blieving her
to be the Centilla, I displayed the Private Signal established With
her and continued beating up for her: At 2 P.M. the 6* she answered
the Signal and hoisted her colours, got under way and stood outside
the reefs. With the Wessels in company (a small schooner and Sloop:)
it being impossible to cross the reef, from the Situation this Wessel
Was then in, With any prospect of Overtaking her, I did not attempt
it: but proceeded directly to Key Waccas, With the hope of meeting
her there. I arrived at the Key on the 7" remained there untill the
11* Without Seeing or hearing any thing of her. Therefore after
having Supplied Lieut Rogers' Guard With Provisions for one month,
I returned for your further commands. At the reque of L' Rogers,
I have brought a man from Key Vaccas, named Amos Bean, he having
been on board the Centilla and claimed protection as an American
Citizen.
I have the Honor to be Very Respectfully Your Most Ob' Serv"
(Signed) FRAN" H GREGORY. Lieu" Com"t U.S. Navy
COMre DAVID PORTER Comm” US Naval Forces in the West
Indies and Gulph of Mexico.
(True Copy)
ANDREW JACKSON TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., J 10:ALS)
HERMITAGE July 14* 1823
DEAR SIR, I see from the Public Journals that a Treaty is to be
held with the Seminole Indians in September next, the object of which
is to concentrate them at some point within the Peninsula, and to
mark & lay off a boundary for them.
I believe without vanity I may say, that I am well acquainted with
the Indian character, and I have no hesitation in saying that that the
Government will experience some difficulty in concentrating the
Florida Indians at the proposed point in the Peninsula, they being
* Enclosed in a covering letter of July 18, 1823, from Porter to the Secretary of
the Navy. Other enclosures include, besides Porter's instruction of July 4 to
Gregory, a communication of July 10 from Lt. Stephen M. Rogers commanding
the marine encampment on Key Vacas, with enclosures concerning affairs at that
place.



720 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
only the Renegado Creeks who have wandered there. A movement
of the Troops to Tampas bay, previous to the Talks being held with
them, would have a powerful influence upon their minds, and give
great effect to the Talks of the commissioners: Will you therefore
permit me to suggest to £e you the propriety of sending to Tampas
bay, one half of the 4* Reg" of Infantry now at Pensacola? It
would have a very beneficial effect. I have fully communicated to
Co' Gadsden my ideas on the subject of the approaching negotiation,
and would further suggest the propriety of giving to the commissioners
discretionary powers to locate the Indians, either, within the Peninsula,
or, on both sides of the Apelachicola extending, West ten miles,
East to Oclockney River, and South within five miles of the Ochesee
Bluffs—Here they can be concentrated, and will leave a free com-
munication from East to West Florida crossing the Apelachicola at
the Ochesee Bluffs; and all the good lands on the Choctaw Hatche,
and East of the Oclockney to the Alatchua plains, and on the margin
of the Gulph, preserved for a dense White population,-sufficient to
overawe the Indians, and keep down the insurrection of the Blacks, of
which there must be a large number in the Floridas at some future
day.
If it be the particular desire of the Executive to make this concentra-
tion within the Peninsula, permit me again to repeat, that the appear-
ance of a Garrison of Regulars at Tampas bay will be necessary to
effect it at the desired point. Nothing short of this, as I believe, will
procure it, as by it, the talk of the Commissioners will have force,
—without it, will be ineffectual, and calculated to inflame the Indians.
My real desire that my friend Gadsden should be successful in his
first essay as commissioner, and also that the best interest of Florida
should be promoted, has induced me thus to obtrude these ref [MS.
torn] suggestions upon your mind, trusting that they will be read
with that spirit of friendship with which they are written.”
I am sir with sincere respect your friend
ANDREW JACKSON
THE HONBLE J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
[Addressed] The Honble J. C. Calhoun Sec, of War City of Washing-
ton [Postmarked] Nash. T. Jul 16 Free Mail
[Endorsed] Jackson, A. &c. Hermitage, 14 July, 1823 relative to the
proposed treaty with the Florida Indians, &c.
* Answered July 31, 1823 (Jackson Papers, LC, printed, Bassett, ed., Corr.
Jackson, III, 201–202). Jackson's reply is printed ibid., p. 202. See also post,
p. 747, n.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 721
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA: OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEP' OF WAR. 17 July 1823.
Gov. Wm. P. DUVAL, St: Augustine.
SIR, Your letter of the 1* instant relative to the appointment of
M* H. Dexter as acting sub agent is received.”—Altho' Mº Dexter
cannot be recognized & paid as Sub-Agent for the want of an appropri-
ation for that purpose, yet as his services appear to be required to
collect the Indians, &c. preparatory to the approaching treaty, you
are authorized to continue him in service, for that purpose only for
which his expenses and a reasonable compensation will be allowed
out of the Contingencies of the Indian Dep" not to exceed $500.”
I have, &c. J. C. C.
GENERAL ORDERS, SECOND BRIGADE OF MILITIA
[LC:St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, July 26, 1823]
Second Brigade of Florida. Head Quarters,
St. Augustine, July 17, 1823.
GENERAL ORDERS.
The Commanding General announces to the Second Brigade
the following staff appointments, Peter Mitchel, Inspector General,
and William Simmons Quarter-master General of the Second Brigade
of Florida: William Travers and Francis P. Sanchez, Aids-de-Camp
to the commanding General, they will be obeyed and respected
accordingly. The officers of the Second Brigade are required forth-
with to take the oath prescribed by law, and proceed to organize
their respective Regiments, Battalions, and Companies and designate
their several boundaries according to the manner directed by the
Acts of the Legislative Council of Florida.-The field officers will
cause returns to be made of the strength, of the arms and equipage
of their respective regiments and battalions, to the Inspector General
of Brigade, who is required without delay to report the same to the
Adjutant General of the Territory.
The Commanding General is pleased to find that his order has been
anticipated by some of the officers of the brigade and that the Second
Regiment is already organized. He flatters himself that every atten-
tion will be paid to the discipline and equipage of the Brigade, and
* NA (WD, SW Reg. of Lets. Recd., Bk. 17); the text is missing.
* See DuVal to the Secretary of War, May 27, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets.
Recd., 1822–1823), enclosing correspondence with Dexter to that date.
301867–57—47



722 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P.A. P.E. R. S.
that every officer and soldier will be prompt and vigilant in the
discharge of their respective duties.
J. M. HERNANDEZ.
Geml. 1st Brigade of Florida
St. Augustine, July 17, 1823.
EDMUND KIRBY TO GEORGE M. BROOKE
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
Adjº Gen' Office WASHINGTON 18 July 1823
COLONEL G. M. BROOKE 4* Infantry Cantonment Clinch Pensacola
Florida
SIR, Your letter of the 17 Ult”,” stating that on the 4* instant
you should give the name of “Cantonment Clinch” to the New Bar-
racks near Pensacola; has been submitted to the Commanding
General and Secretary of War—& I am directed to say that this
designation meets their entire approbation.*—
I have the honour to be &
(sig") E. KIRBY Aide de Camp
ALEXANDER HAMILTON AND DAVIS FLOYD TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
S*AUG* 22. July 1823.
HON Wm H. CRAWFORD.
SIR. We take the liberty to advise that all the Public Documents
transferred by Governor Coppinger to the American Commissioner
at the cession of East Florida to the United States, and now in the
custody of the keeper of the Public Archives, a territorial officer
should be placed in the custody of the Commissioners. An order
from the State Department to the Commissioners will be requisite.
We have to request some authority to procure the necessary office
accommodations.”
We have the honor to be your obt sev"
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
DAVIS FLOYD
[Endorsed] Submitted to the President of the US. Shall the
request be granted? It appears to be proper W. H. Crawford
22° Aug. 1823 let this order issue—J. M.
* Ante, p. 702.
* (A. Copy sent to Brig: Gen. Atkinson at Louisville Ky. 18 July 1823.−)
[Marginal note on the MS.]
* Answered post, p. 734. See also post, p. 729.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 723
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO DAVID PORTER
[NA:ND, SN Lets. to Officers Ships War, Bk. 15]
NAVY DEP'MT 24 July 1823
COMM" DAVID PORTER Comº U.S. Naval Forces West Indies
SIR, I deferred replying to your communication," respecting the
disposition of the wrecked property, that you deemed it your duty to
take into Custody, until I could have an opportunity of submitting
the matter to the consideration of the President of the U.S, who was,
at the time your letter was received, absent on a visit to Virginia.
There can be no doubt, from the representations you have made,
that the wreck was fraudulent, and that method adopted to supersede,
as was supposed, the necessity of proceedings in a court of Admiralty,
to try the question of prize. There is no statute of the United States
regulating the disposition of property wrecked on our territory; but
the common law contemplates all wrecks as the property of the
Sovereign. The proper course will, therefore, be to Send the whole
of the property to S' Augustine and have it placed in the custody of
the Marshal; carefully preserving all the papers and writings found
with the Same, which you will transmit to the Attorney of the U.S.
for East Florida, with a request that he will institute proceedings
against the property in the Superior Court of East Florida, on behalf
of the United States, founded on the right of the United States to the
Said property as wreck, and given notice to all parties interested to
appear and interpose their respective claims.
As regards the conduct of Joshua Appleby, detained under arrest,
it is not expedient to institute against him any further proceedings;
his offense does not amount to a positive violation of any law of the
United States, you will, therefore, direct him to be forthwith liberated.
I am Very Respy &" S. T.
JOEL YANCEY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
[NA:HF, Orig. Reports, TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.:C *]
GLASGOW [Ky.], July 24, 1823:
SIR: On the 9” inst.” I wrote you a letter relative to one I wrote
you 17* April last,” from Mobile, since which, on the 21* inst. I
received from M* Fras. A. Thornton, Mº Samuel Ayres, and my
brother Charles, letters informing me of the death of Mº Joseph
Dawley, my late Deputy at Key West; and Mº Thornton informed
me, as well as M* Ayres, that the laws, papers, blanks, &c. &c. were
1 Ante, p. 705.
* Printed also in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess., p. 20.
* Not found.
* Not found.



724 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
sent on to M* Dawley's brother at Norfolk; and Mr Ayres observed
that it was your advice, as well as the Comptroller's, that I should
appoint a Deputy to report from the papers. I have done so, and
appointed my brother Charles Yancey of Wa. Richmond, and have
directed Mº Dennis Dawley to bring all the business there to my
brother, who will no doubt report, as quick as possible. I am a good
deal shocked at the account of the yellow fever appearing at Key
West so soon, and have concluded not to return till fall, nor to order
M" Ayres to return before, although I am very uneasy about the
stagnation of business for the want of officers, but before I would
return there now, I really would resign; even if I was not detained here
as I am by indispensable business. What would you advise me to do?
Had I better appoint a Deputy if I can get one, and send him on & let
him procure a temporary inspector, if any business should occur?
And, although I dislike very much to be troublesome to you, should be
extremely obliged to you for your advice, as I am very uneasy lest I
should be the means of injuring the public service.”
I am Sir, with great respect, Your friend,
(Signed) JOEL YANCEY
[Endorsed] Nº 23 Glasgow, Ken. July 24* 1823. Joel Yancey
advising that he does not mean to return to Key West until the
ensuing Autumn.—
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Sº AUG" July 28, 1823
DEAR SIR. Since my arrival in this place I have been informed that
the information required by the Secretary of State relative to the claims
upon the City Corporation of St Augustine has been transmitted to
the Department and as my clients are constantly urging a settlement
of their demand I shall be much gratified if you will let me know what
are the prospects—
I depend upon your attention to bring this subject to a close during
the Summer—I have no confidence in the events of the Winter"—
with much esteem your Ob Sev"
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
FONTAINE MAURY Esq. Washington
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq. State Department Washington
[Endorsed] Hamilton Alex 28 July 1823 St Augustine R* 24 August
* Answered post, p. 728. A few other letters of this year relative to the col-
lectorship at Key West are printed in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess.
* See post, p. 735.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 725
GEORGE MURRAY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE July 28* 1823.
SIR, On the 27* day of August last I received the appointment of
Sollicitor for the counties of St John, and Duval in the Territory of
Florida, and performed the duties of the office up to the 27" of May
last—The legislative Council had at its first session deemed the
establishment of inferior Courts necessary; and after having organized
a judiciary such as they thought the exigencys of the country required,
they passed a law to raise a revenue for the purpose of compensating
the officers of the different courts—This last law was on the third of
March last disapproved of by congress'—and of course the collection
of the revenue has never been made—Tis but fair therefore to presume
that as Congress, acted under the impression that the people of this
country were unable to bear taxation, it intended that the General
government should defray the expences incurred under the law of the
legislative council establishing circuit courts in the Territory, as that
law was sanctioned by Congress and the courts actually in operation,
until the system was altered by the Council, which has just adjourned.
I trust that the executive will think with me, that as Congress has
deprived the Territorial government of the means to meet its engage-
ments that those to whom it is indebted have a just claim upon the
general government for their demands—Under the impression that
the justice and equity of my application will receive due consideration
from you, I have taken the liberty to draw for the amount of my
account; * and I have the honor to be Yr S*
GEO: MURRAY
[Addressed] To/ the hon” John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington [Postmarked] St Augustine free
[Endorsed] Murray George—St Augustine 28 July 1823 Recd 22”
Augt. has drawn a Bill for the amt claimed by him as Solicitor for the
Counties of St. John & Duval, in florida.
JOHN ERVING TO PATRICK H. GALT
[NA:WD, East. Dept., Lets. Recd.:ALS)
Sº AUGUSTINE 1st Aug 1823
SIR, I have the honor to enclose herewith, a Monthly Return for
July, of the Troops stationed at this Post.
I deem it proper to report for the information of the Commandº
Gen' that there are ten prisoners in confinement at this Post, charged
with desertion.
* 3 STAT. 754 (sec. 16).
* No reply found.



726 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
The non-commissioned Officers & privates reported “on Command”
in the Monthly Return, were, in compliance with a requisition from
the Governor of the Territory, placed under his order; and are now
employed in putting a stop to the destruction of the public timber on
Black Creek, about fifty miles west of this place.
I am Sir, very respectfully Yº Ob. Servº
J. ERVING Capt Lº Cy 4th Art”
To/ LIEUT. P. H. GALT, Act" as: adjº Gen' Eastern Dep"
[Endorsed] Capt. Erving Sº Augustine 1* Aug" 1823.
NOTICE REGARDING THE CUTTING OF PUBLIC TIMBER
[LC: St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, Aug. 2, 1823]
[August 2, 1823]
PUBLIC TIMBER.
Notice is hereby given, that all persons are forbidden to sell, cut,
destroy, or carry away any of the timber of the United States in
Florida, on pain of prosecution and seizure of the timber, so cut or
attempted to be carried away. Any person claiming a right to the
land on which timber may be growing in East Florida, is requested,
previously to cutting any of it, to make application to the District
Attorney of the U. States at St. Augustine, exhibiting such persons'
title to the land.”
JOHN RODMAN,
Acting District Attorney of the U. S.
ST. AUGUSTINE, August 2, 1823.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE Augt. 4th 1823
JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
At the request of Capt. Hanham, who acted as sheriff and also as
jailor of St. Johns County I herewith transmit his account and vouch-
ers, for his expences incured as Jailor &c together with his letter to
me of this date, I have informed Capt Hanham that his accounts
must be submitted to your department before, I could agree to pay
them even if I had ample means of doing so.
yours with high respect & esteem
Wm. P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” John Q Adams Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] with Sheriff Hanhams account
* See post, p. 794.



FLORIDA. T E R RI TOR Y 727
[Enclosure:ALS)
James R. Hamham to Governor DuVal
ST. AUGUSTINE August 4* 1823
TO HIS EXCELLENCY Wm. P. DUVAL
SIR. Herewith I have the honor to transmit an account of (a part)
of expenditures made by me, for the U. S. p" the Territory of Florida
togather with my account for services rendered.” In order to defray
the expences of the Office of Sheriff, and not having suffitient funds
of my own, I was obliged to purchase provisions &c on a Credit to
feed the Prisoners &c. The Legislative Council having rejected the
nomination you done me the honor to make for my reappointment as
Sheriff has injured my credit so much that four suits have been
instituted against me on account of the distribution of Territorial
Funds to defray the necessary expences of my office, I hope it will
be in your power to pay the am" or at least to advance so much as will
inable me to pay off about 1000 Doll". My situation is deplorable
indeed, I am in a strange country without means and a Family to
support and if relief is not soon afforded, what little property I have
will be exposed to Sheriff Sale to pay Public expences.
I have the honor to be Sir with the Highest respect your Ot. S
J R HANHAM
[Addressed] To His Excellency W* P. Duval Govt of Florida
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters;ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE Augt. 4* 1823
JoHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
Inclosed are a set of vouchers handed to me by Capt. Hanham late
sheriff of St. Johns County " The account is large and too important
for me to decide, I therefore required him to produce his account and
vouchers for your inspection, Capt. Hanham as far as I know has
done his duty prompty and faithfully—he is distressed by the advances
he has made, and his situation requires the speedy. settlement of his
accounts
yours with high respect & esteem
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon" John Q Adams Secretary of State Washington
1° Not present.
11 Not present.



728 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JOEL YANCEY
[NA:HF, Orig. Reports, TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.:C 12)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT August 9, 1823.
SIR: Yours of the 24” ultimo has been received by this day's mail.”
It is important that an officer should be at Key West as soon as
practicable. The cutter has sailed for that station, and will have
frequent occasions for instructions and advice.
Key West is considered healthy. Your Deputy caught the yellow
fever at the Havana, as have all those who have been afflicted with
that disease. If he had remained at his post it is highly probable that
he would have escaped and continued in health.
I am, &c.
(Signed)WM. H. CRAWFORD
JoEL YANCEY Esq Collector Key West Glasgow Ken.
[Endorsed] Nº 24 August 9” 1823. To Joel Yancey, Esq. Collector,
Key West urging the necessity for an officer's being at Key West.
FONTAINE MAURY TO ELIAS B. GOULD
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XX]
Department of State WASHINGTON 12 Aug' 1823
E B. GOULD Esquire Sº Augustine
SIR. I enclose herewith the Treasurers draft on the Branch of the
U S. Bank at Charleston for $344.25, which includes the several
accounts presented by you to this Department for payment—namely—
For publishing the Laws of the last Session of Congress 120.
do Laws of the Legislative Council of Florida 197.
Various advertizements 27.25
$344.25
Your last letter enclosing these accounts does not state with sufficient
precision whether it your wish that the whole amount due to you, or
$120. allowed for publishing the Laws of Congress, should be remitted
to M' Tyler of Charleston—Your former letter “which would perhaps
have explained more distinctly, your wishes is mislaid, and I have
therefore determined to remit to you the entire sum due.
I am Sir. Respectfully your obedient Servant
L. SMITH Acting for Fontaine Maury Ag"
12 Printed also in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess., p. 21.
is Ante, p. 723.
1* Not found.



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 729
THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO JOHN LE CONTE
[NA:WD, CE Lets. to Eng. Offs., Bk. 1]
Engineer Departm Washington Aug. 16, 1823
CAPT. JoHN LE CoNTE New Ark New Jersey
SIR, It is in contemplation to construct a road between Pensacola
and Sº Augustine with a view of opening a direct & free communica-
tion from the Atlantic to the Gulf of Mexico. The reconnaissance
and marking out of this communication is committed to your charge,
and, in consequence, you are required to repair to this place forth-
with in order to make the necessary arrangements for entering on
that duty.”
I have &c.
(Signed) ALEx. MACOMB M Gen' Ch. Eng"
WILLIAM REYNOLDS AND ANTONIO ALWAREZ TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. 25* August 1823–
HONORABLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State.
Agreeably to our instructions dated 5* Ap' 1823 *—we took posses-
sion of the eight Boxes of Spanish Documents on the 9” May and
continued the examination of them untill the 24* May when it was
suspended in consequence of Mr. Reynolds being a Member of the
Legislative Council; the Council closed their Session the 5* July and
on the 7” we entered again upon our duties—At the request of Mr
Hamilton one of the Land Comissioners who arrived here some weeks
before his Colleagues we were induced to examine certain Bundles for
the purpose of furnishing him with the Royal Orders respecting the
granting of Lands should they be found, they were found, and Mr.
Hamilton was permitted to examine them, and at his request gave
him Copies of them for the use of the Board, as also Copies to such
private individuals as applied for them—Those Copies were certified
by Mr. Reynolds as Keeper of the Public Archives. In the course of
our further examination we found sundry other Documents which we
conceived might be important to the Board of Land Commissioners
then in session to have Copies of, we accordingly communicated the
fact to one of them, in consequence of which they directed their Secre-
tary to examine them, and make a Schedule of such as he thought
might be important in their deliberations:–To their Secretary every
facility was given and he made a Schedule of such as he thought
proper, which Schedule we presume was by him presented to the
* See post, p. 736.
1° Ante, p. 657.
; :



730 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA PERS
Board, as on the next day the following order was presented by their
Secretary “Wednesday August 20° 1823. Ordered that the Secretary
of this Board, Do call upon William Reynolds, Keeper of the Public
Archives for the District of East Florida and require of him the
Original Documents in the Schedule marked (A) and numbered from
one to 35—inclusive—to be filed in the Office of the Secretary to this
Board for the use of said Board, and that the said Secretary do forth-
with observe this Order and report to this Board upon tomorrow.
A Copy from the minutes of the Board of Land Commissioners for
E. Florida—Attested F. J. Fatio SecY Board of Land Commis-
sioners”—to which the following answer was returned—“St. Augustine
August 21* 1823—Sir-In reply to your note of yesterday in which
you enclose me Copy of an order passed by the Honorable the Board
of Land Commissioners and Schedule of certain Original Documents
which they require of me as Keeper of the Public Archives, I beg
leave to inform you that the Documents there alluded to, are not in
my Office, but are found among the Archives now in possession of
Commissioners appointed by the Secretary of State to reexamine them;
as one of the Commission it will afford me pleasure to give the Honor-
able Board any information contained in them, in the mode we have
already done at the request of Mr. Hamilton one of the Honorable the
Commissioners, as this course have been approved of by the Gentle-
man associated with me, and as we are only appointed by the Secretary
of State to examine the papers, we could not without an order from
the Department of State, part with the Custody of the Original papers,
If however our personal attendance should be required by the Honor-
able Board for the purpose of exhibiting any Original Document in
our possession we will most Cheerfully comply—I am respectfully
your most obedient Servant—William Reynolds—Keeper of the
Public Archives—F. J. Fatio Esquire Secretary of Board of Land
Commissioners”—On the following morning we were served with a
writ of Judes tecum;” we accordingly repaird to the Board with the
Original Documents required in the writ and exhibited them to the
Commissioners stating at same time our decided conviction that we
had no authority to part with the possession of the Original papers,
but that we would give them Copies, or that their Secretary might
take Copies of them in our Office, or that we would personally attend
at the Board untill their Secretary could take Copies, that there were
private individuals who had applied for Copies of some of them and
that if taken out of our possession we could not accomodate the Public
as the necessity of their cases appeard to require.-Some of them were
considered very important in ejectment cases which were expected to
come on at the November Term, and that if once taken from us we
could not feel ourselves authorized to receive them again into the
1* Duces tecum.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 731
Office without instructions from the Department to that effect: The
Commissioners having them then in their possession were divided on
the question of returning them Mr. Blair for, Mr. Hamilton against
returning, Mr. Floyd absent, consequently the papers were retained.
The reason of this last objection of ours will be perfectly under-
stood by the following explanation—The Spanish mode of keeping
their Archives is as follows An official Letter from the Governor to
the Captain Gen' Secretary of State, in fact in all cases was first
drafted on a loose Sheet of Paper often much erased and enterlined a
fair Copy was made out and forwarded—the Original draft as above
described, filed away in the office without any signature—therefore it
is only the situation in which it is found among the Archives that can
give it any credit as an Official Document, which Character is in a
great measure destroyed by its being separated from the Office—
We have thought it our duty to communicate those facts to you,
and request you will be pleased to give us such instructions for our
future governm" as the nature of the case in your Judgement may
require "—
With great respect. We remain yours Most Obedient Servants.
WILL REYNOLDS
ANTONIO ALWAREZ
[Endorsed) Reynolds W* Alvarez Antonio St Augustine, 25 Aug"
1823 Recd 11th Sep Public Documents in the Archives of East
florida.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Executive Office ST. AUGUSTINE Augt. 26* 1823
HoNLE JOHN Q. ADAMS.
SIR I have been compelled to rent an office at the rate of $15 per
month.
This ought not be done, when the United States have building of
their own in this City that will answer every purpose
Mr John Rodman the collector of this port has taken possession of
a public building adjoing the Custom house which he has occupied
in defiance of my order for some time, with his family, saying he has
some order from the Treasuary department, which authorizes him to
do so, I have never seen or heard of such an order, and I do not
believe any such was ever given, I hope the President will direct me,
to take possession of all the Public building now in the collectors
private use, as the Custom house alone has four or five rooms in it,
which are more than sufficient for all the use or dutes of his office
* See post, p. 734.



732 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
The lot and building now in the family service of Mº Rodman, will
be sufficient for several Public offices now much wanted, and will save
to the United States several hundred Dollars annually
I do not occupy any Public Building myself and have directed
that the Goverment house should be appropriated, to the use of the
courts. Legislative counsel and Land commissions their Secretary
& clerk It is improper, that any officer of the Goverment should
retain for his private convenience any national property, that the
Public interest requires for its service with sentiments of high respect
and esteem *
Your obt. Sevt.
Wm P. DUVAL
The Property in the private use of the Colletors is the same formely
occupied by Co.' Eustis. and which I have understood he was ordered
to diliver to Mº Worthington some 12 months since, Mr. Rodman
must have take possession the moment Co" Eustis left the house.
I have seen no order, among the Papers of Mr. Worthington relating
to this property—. W* P D
|Addressed] Hon” John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City—[Postmarked] St Augustine August 26* free
[Endorsed] Duval Gov. St Augustine, 26 Augt. 1823 Recd 11th Sep'
occupation by Collector Rodman & his family, of a house and ground,
public property
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd. 1823:LS)
St AUGUSTIN 2nd Sep 1823
SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 27* May, referring to my account, as Superintendent of Indian
affairs in this Territory, rendered in to your Department.”
The item which I find objected to, is a specific sum of $1500, debited
by me for office rent, Clerk hire, and other expenses attending the
discharge of the duties of that situation, I have no desire to receive
from the Government, any money but what I am justly entitled to,
and I am bold to hope, that when the circumstances under which I
have been placed are considered, my demand will not be deemed
unreasonable. Altho' my situation materially differs from that of
either Governors Clark, Cass, or Miller, yet I can with great
confidence assure you that it is, and has been, attended with many
peculiar inconveniences from which they were exempt.
Until the arrival of the Agent, last winter, the duty of attending to
the Indians devolved on me, the total inability of Cap" Pelham, from
* No reply found.
* Ante, p. 689.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 733
his ill health, to do the duty of his office,” and the acting Agent
Col. Eustis having been stationed at S* Augustin, precluded the
possibility of my receiving any assistance from either of these Gentle-
men, in the Western part of the Territory. The fever which prevailed
at Pensacola last season, obliged me to leave that place, and owing
to the illness of the Secretary Col. Walton's ahd his family, I found
it necessary to employ Alfred W Hines, as a Clerk, to whom I paid
several sums of money for his services, as well as his board. I per-
ceive you are misinformed as regards the number of the Florida In-
dians, and their intercourse with this City, they are scattered over
the greatest part of the Territory, and since my arrival here not a day
has passed in which several have not been in town, they are con-
stantly coming and going, and almost always call on me. the Spanish
Governors invariably treated them with great respect and ceremony,
as they dreaded giving them the slightest offence, and I deem it
prudent not to make any change in this intercourse until after the
treaty. Many of these Indians possess considerable property, and
as licences to trade had before my arrival been given to every person
who applied and offered Security, various disputes have arisen
between the Indians and those traders, which occupy my attention
daily, and as I feel it my duty, to have the strictest justice done in
these cases, much of my time and attention is occupied in their inves-
tigation. In order to hear the talks of the Indians, and transact
the business connected with them, I have been obliged to rent an
office with a large Room, but after October next, I do not believe I
shall be under an absolute necessity of renting a house for this purpose.
Under the impression (however erroneous) that the sum of 1500
Dollars would be allowed me to cover the expenses of Office Rent,
fuel, stationary, Clerk hire, &cc I never kept an Account of my actual
expenditure, except that of the sums received from your department,
and cannot consequently certify the exact amount on my honour.
You are now informed that Thomas Murphy has acted as my clerk
from the 1* May to 1* Sept". I employed him without agreeing to
pay any certain sum, but his compensation was to be submitted to
your discretion, he has performed much service, and as yet has
received nothing, the expense of living is high, and a Clerk cannot
obtain decent boarding in this City, for less than from 7 to 10 Dollars
per week. I will only remark that after October, I shall endeavor to
do all the writing myself, and will save (as far as I can do so without
neglecting my other duties) your department from every expense
that can be avoided, consistent with the public interest.
20 Cf. ante, p. 697, n.



734 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P.A. P. E. R. S.
Governor Harrison * of the former territory of Indiana, and Gover-
nor Edwards " of Illinois, must I presume have been somewhat
similarly circumstanced with myself. I am ignorant of what they
received as Superentend" of Indian affairs, but I conceive myself
justly entitled, to the same compensation, which can be ascertained by
reference to the allowance made them.
Were I disposed to look for any thing more than what I am fairly
entitled to, I am satisfied the order, regularity, and Economy of
your department, would prevent such an expectation from being
realized, for the same reason I look with confidence to such an allow-
ance as has been usually made in similar cases, and at once submit my
claim to your judgment and decision. I also beg leave to request
that you will fix upon a specific sum for my future allowance, in order
that I may make arrangements suitable to it.” With the highest
respect I have the honor to be Sir Your most ob' Serv"
Wm P. DUVAL
HoN. JoHN: C CALHOUN Secretary of War
[Endorsed] Duval, W. P. Sº Augustin, 2 Sep 1823. relative to his
allowance as Superintendent of Indian Affairs—
DANIEL BRENT TO THE LAND COMMISSIONERS
(EAST FLORIDA LAND DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XX]
Department of State WASHINGTON 4 Sep–1823
DAVID FLOYD W* W. BLAIR & ALEXANDER HAMILTON Esquires
Commissioners for Ascertaining Claims & titles to Land in the
Territory of Florida S” Augustine.
GENTLEMEN. In the absence of the Secretary of State, and by
direction of the President of the United States, I have written to the
Keeper of the public archives at St Augustine,” and beg leave to
trouble you with my Letter, enclosed, requesting him to deliver over
* William Henry Harrison. Concerning his salary as superintendent, see
Terr. Papers (Ind.), VII, 294–295.
* Ninian Edwards.
* Answered post, p. 774. See DuVal to the Secretary of War, Aug. 4, 1823
(NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.), enclosing estimates of the Supt. of Indian Affairs
for the last two quarters in the amount of $3272.75, and stating that the number
of Indians in Florida Territory had been underestimated. This was answered
Oct. 16, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E), to the effect that only $1875
could be remitted, and that the salaries of Humphries and Pelham had been paid.
DuVal replied on Nov. 10, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.), that he was glad
Pelham was returning and would use his services while visiting the interior of
the territory.
* Sept. 4, 1823, NA(SD, Dom. Lets. xx). The text of this letter is embodied
p08t, p. 757.



FLORIDA. T E R R IT OR Y 735
to you, the public Documents transferred by Governor Coppinger, to
the American Commissioners at the cession of East Florida to the
United States; which Documents are stated by Mess" Hamilton and
Floyd, in their Letter of the 22** July * to the Secretary of the
Treasury, to be in the custody of that officer.”
I am, gentlemen, with great Respect, your obedient and very
humble Servant
DANIEL BRENT
WATERS SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Mayors Office, City of S*AUGUSTINE 9” Sept. 1823
SIR On the 11* February last I had the honour of addressing a
letter to you on the subject of our City debts,” contracted in the years
1821 and 2—and requesting that the President would be pleased to
authorise their payment: Under date of first march you replied,” that
“the amount would be paid from the fund appropriated by the act of
Congress of 3" March 1821—for carrying into execution the Treaty
between the United States and Spain, so far as the expenditures shall
upon the examination of the accounts for the same appear to have been
just and reasonable”—On the 15* April last I wrote to you enclosing
the accounts referred to,” amounting to $2478 61%/100 since which
I have not been favored with any communication on the subject.
Many of the claimants are much in want of their money; and since
May last have been anxiously looking for the payment of their de-
mands: Many of the original crediters of the Corporation, have trans-
ferred their accounts; and a house in Charlston now holds upwards of
One Thousand dollars of these claims, altho' the accounts forwarded
to your department, are in the names of the original crediters, and the
transfers not noted.
On the arrival of every Mail, numbers are calling on me to enquire
if money has been received to pay their demands—I cannot imagine
that any thing should have occurred to induce the President to change
his opinion as to the payment of these claims—
I have to request as a particular favour, that you will be pleased to
give this an early consideration, and should it be determined to remit
the amount, that it may be done by a Draft on the U.S. Branch
Bank at Charlston, as a draft on that place, can be cashed here with-
* Ante, p. 722.
* See post, p. 745.
* Ante, p. 617.
* Ante, p. 635.
* Ante, p. 666.



736 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A. P. E. R. S.
out discount—As soon as the money is received, the accounts shall be
paid & receipts forwarded to your department if required "
With due consideration and respect I remain Your obed" Serv"
WATERS SMITH Mayor
HON* J. Q. ADAMS
[Endorsed] Smith Waters, St Augustine, 9 Sep 1823 Recd 28th.
Aſcs from East florida.
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DANIEL E. BURCH
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 5]
September 11” 1823
CAPT. D. E. BURCH Asst. Q Master Pensacola
SIR, So soon as the season shall permit, you will commence the survey
of a road, on the most direct practicable route, from Pensacola in
West Florida, to St. Augustine in East Florida.
Previous to commencing the survey, you will examine, or cause to
be examined, the country between yellow Water” & St. Rosa's” bay,
and if it be sufficiently high & dry, to admit of a good road, that route
would be preferable to that which you recommend by Beeler's ferry—
the convenience for crossing the Bay at the town of Pensacola, it is
believed, will be greater, and the ferriage in consequence, more certain
than at Beelers: besides, some distance will be saved, and Cold water
bay and Yellow water river, as well as Beeler's ferry, will be avoided.
Should this route be found practicable, it might intersect that pro-
posed by you at, or near, the ferry on Choctaw Hatchie.” It is believed
that the route proposed by you thence to Ochessee, on the Appalachi-
cola, is preferable to any other. From the Appalachicola to St.
Augustine, you must endeavour to make the road as short and direct
as the nature of the country will permit.—The route must be marked
by cutting, or, as it is called in the Western Country, blazing trees at
convenient distances, so that the Troops ordered to open the road,
may trace the route without the aid of a guide.
The commanding officer at Pensacola will be instructed, by an
order from the Adjutant General's Office, to place under your com-
mand, a subaltern officer & such number of non com" officers & soldiers
as may be found necessary. You will employ guides, & provide the
number of horses, mules, tools & instruments, which the service may
require. Having completed the survey, you will make to this office, a
detailed report of your proceedings, as soon as you possibly can,
taking care to note particulary the nature of the country, the quality
* Answered post, p. 743.
3. A river flowing into the northeastern part of Pensacola Bay.
* The present Choctawatchie Bay.
* Choctawatchie River.



FL OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 737
of the lands, the number & condition of the Indians, in the vicinity of
the proposed road, the nature of the ferries or fords over the several
rivers, or other waters on the route; and every other circumstance
which you may consider of sufficient interest to be known. You will
also report, whether in your opinion, it may not be necessary to
station Small detachments of troops, at convenient distances on the
road, until the country be settled, to afford protection to travellers, as
well as to the mail; and to facilitate the communication between the
two territories.—
You will also, make a detailed estimate of the probable sum required
to open the road, & forward it to this office. I return to you the map
which you sent to me on which I have marked — — — — the route
proposed between Yellow Water & St. Rosa's bay.”
When you shall have completed the survey of, the road to St.
Augustine,” and have forwarded your report and estimate, you will
then survey the mail route which you proposed between Pensacola and
Fort Mitchell, and make a similar report & estimate.”
I am, Sir. &,
JOSEPH M. WHITE TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA 12* September 1823
SIR, I received your letter by the last Mail requesting me to forward
my account for services as District Atto of West Florida to you for
adjustment.” I have already forwarded them several months since
to the other department, upon the subject of which they have not
favoured me with any answer. I am gratified to learn that they are
to be adjusted at the Department of State. I was appointed by the
Judge of the Superior Court to attend to the interests of the United
States at a period when the Court was crowded with important
business of the Government, and at a time when no Attorney had been
appointed to fill the vacancy of the late incumbent. I was offered a
much larger sum to appear for the Defendants than that charged to
the United States. In the first account I forwarded to the other
Department, I charged the sum of ten Dollars for each prisoner or
Defendant tried in Court. We have no fee fixed by law for the
prosecution of offenders in this Territory, and upon reference to the
Act of Congress fixing the compensation of Attorneys, I find they are
allowed as in the Courts of the State in which the prosecution is
* In relation to this road see Burch's letters of Oct. 3, Oct. 21, and Nov. 7, and
his report of Dec. 1, 1823, in Boyd, “First American Road,” Fla. Hist, Quar.,
XIV, 89–99.
** Not present. * See post, p. 764.
* On Aug. 6, 1923, Maury wrote that the account in question had not been
received and requested a duplicate (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx).
301867–57–48



738 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
carried on, and if there is none allowed by the laws of that State, then
those of the nearest District. I have now made out my account
charging fifteen dollars, being the fee in criminal cases in Alabama,
and I am informed by the District Attorney there that that sum has
always been paid to him, and in cases of Piracy an additional compen-
sation allowed: all that I demand is what the law allows me. Shortly
after my appointment some of the most valuable public buildings were
taken possession of by British Grantees—I prosecuted writs of
Forcible Entry & Detainer against them in the County and Circuit
Court of the Territory, at great trouble and labor, until they were
evicted, and the houses redelivered, by the Sheriff, to the Quarter
Master and are now in the possession of the United States.
I consider the account, herewith enclosed, a just and legal statement
of what I am entitled to, which I will thank you to submit, as early
as possible, to the Hon. Secretary, and the amount, or whatever
portion thereof, may be allowed, I will thank you to remit in a Check
upon the Branch Bank of New-Orleans, or give me authority to draw
upon you, on the Bank at Washington, whichever may be most
convenient to you.”
I am, with high considerations Of Respect Your Ob" Serv"
JOS: M. WHITE.
[Addressed] Mº Fontaine Maury Department of State Washington
City
[Endorsed] Jo. M. White Pensacola 12 Sept Rº 2. Oct. Jos. M.
White Acting District Attorney Pensacola. With accounts for his
compensation. See pages 47 & 48—acts 2° Session 17 Congress &
page 59—Also act 28. Feb. 1799–3 vol.-
[Enclosure: ADS]
Account of Joseph M. White as Acting District Attorney
Account [September 6, 1823]
THE UNITED STATES D."
To Joseph M. White late acting District Attorney for West Florida
in the place of T. B. Harrison, Deceased—
For attending the District Court of West Florida thirteen
days at the January Term 1823, upon business of the
United States, at $5 per day, as allowed by the Act of
Congress, making— $65.00
For prosecuting sixteen persons charged with piracy (at $15
each) being the sum allowed in the nearest District (Ala-
bama)— 240.00
* See post, p. 781.



FL OR I. D A T E R R ITO R Y 739
For prosecuting three other persons for felony and four for
misdemeanours 70. 00
For the Salary, at the rate of $200 per annum for four
months— 66. 00
$441.00
West Florida, Sct— January Term 1823
Ordered, that Joseph M. White, Esq. be appointed Attorney for
the United States in the place of T. B. Harrison, deceased, for the
present term of the Court.
Extract from the Minutes—JNo. MILLER Clk
West-Florida—Ss.-
I do hereby certify, that I appointed Joseph M. White Esquire, to
attend to the business of the United States, at the January Term
1823, and that the foregoing account has been examined by me, and
the services therein enumerated performed by the said Attorney and
the sums charged found to be correct, and the Attorney entitled to
the same from the United States—
PENSACOLA 6th Sep 1823.
H M BRACKENRIDGE Judge. Sup” Cº West Florida
[Endorsed] M*Whites account as acting District Atty West Florida—
JUDGE BRACKENRIDGE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
|NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA Sep" 12" 1823–
SIR-I enclose a letter addressed to me by Mº Scott the deputy
collector at this place, together with some accompanying documents,
in relation M* Steel the Attorney of the United States here. I con-
sider it my duty to inform the President, that the official deportment
of Mr Steel has been such as to give great dissatisfaction, and I do
not hesitate to give it as my opinion, that the interests of the United
States cannot be safely or reputably entrusted to him as District
Attorney.
I am, respectfully Your most obed" Sev"
H: M.: BRACKENRIDGE Judge of the Supº Court West Florida—
HON: JoHN QUINCY ADAMS, Sec. of State—
[Endorsed] Recd. 2 Octr. 1823. Brackenridge H. M. Pensacola
12 Sep. 1823 Recd. 2. Oct. with Documents respecting the District
Attorney of West Florida.



740 T E R RITOR I. A. L. PA PERS
[Enclosure:LS)
Alexander Scott, Jr. to Judge Brackenridge
Collectors Office PENSACOLA 2* Sept. 1823
SIR Herewith I have the honor to transmit a copy of a note ad-
dressed by me to W* F. Steele Esqr. U. S. attorney of W. Florida
requesting him to institute suit against James Forsyth Master of the
Schooner Thomas Shields of & from New Orleans for having landed
Slaves at this port contrary to the provisions of the 9” Section of the
Act of Congress passed March 2** 1807. for the Suppression of the
Slave trade.*
It appears from Mº Steeles reply (a copy of which is also enclosed)
that such offences cannot be prosecuted in the name of the U. States,
an opinion in which I imagine few Legal men will concur, The Se-
curity of the Revenue in its collection as also the preventing the
illegal introduction of Slaves (in relation to which the most benevolent
means have been adopted by the Section alluded to in imposing a
penalty of $10.000. on the master of the Wessels who violates it)
depending entirely upon a Salutary & rigid enforcement of the Laws,
when they are enfringed wilfully & with intent to defraud & as such
cases may daily occur, I consder it a duty imperatively incumbent
upon me as the Deputy Collector of this port to insist that an Attorney
be appointed pro tem by the court to prosecute all suits arising from
infractions of the Revenue Laws & those relating to the Slave trade.
If the doctrine of M* Steele is admitted the Laws may be violated
with impunity, & the refusal on the part of the District Attorney to
act I consider equally as great a disqualification, as death, disability
or absence, in all of which cases the Court exercizes the prerogative of
appointing a successor.
An additional evidence of the District Attorneys having totally
mistaken the nature of the duties imposed upon him, will be found in a
letter addressed by him to me on the 25* ult” (of which tho containing
other matters, a copy will be furnished if necessary) demanding of me
$20 for appearing as counsel in the case of M. Simon W. S. Alexander
Scott Collector which is now on the Docket.
By a reference to the bill filed in the case it will be found that this suit
originated in consequence of the seizure of a certain number of casks
teneriffe wine by the Collector through his Deputy; being the original
casks of importation and were not accompanied by the necessary
Certificates of legal importation prescribed by the 23* & 26* Sections
of the Act of Congress passed March 3° 1799.” it is to be inferred
from his making the demand, that as in the other Case, he views this
as a qui tam action. In conclusion I must observe that unless the
** 2 STAT. 426–430.
* 1 STAT. 644–645, 647–648. The correct date of the act is Mar. 2, 1799.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 741
Court will be pleased to respond my request by adopting such measures
as may seem meet, whereby the Laws can be duly executed the opera-
tions of my department mus be entirely suspended.—
I am Sir with great Respect Your Very Ob" Serv"
ALEX SCOTT Jr D. Collector
HONBL* H. M. BRACKENRIDGE Judge Superior Court W. Florida
P. S. I enclose also a copy of a letter from the Collector of N.
Orleans expressing his views on the subject, I forbear making any
remark on the postscript of M* Steeles letter as to the privilege given
the Cap" to land the Slaves (which is not a fact) as it is evident that
he has blended the judicial Robe with that of the Attorney
[Addressed] Honblº H. M. Brackenridge
[Endorsed] Deputy Collector Pensacola 2° Septr. 1823 with H. M.
Brackenridge's letter of 12 Sep 1823.
[Subenclosures]
Beverly Chew to Alexander Scott, Jr.
Collectors office NEW ORLEANS 26* June 1822
SIR I have recº your letter of 4* Ins' * relative to the conduct of
the Master of the Steam Schooner, which plies betwen this place and
your port, in landing Slaves, transported in said Wessel without a
Slave Manifest or descriptive list, & landing them without a permit
or Inspection.
In answer to your request, I have to inform you that I have always
considered the law as imperative, & in every instance where it has
been violated, I have felt it my duty to institute a prosecution—and
where Circumstances justify it, the libel can be dismissed with the
consent of the Court & Att" for the U. States—It appears to me that
the Master of the Schooner in question, is determined to ascertain
whether he will be permitted to violate the laws with impunity or not,
a few days past he brough two Slaves into this District, unacompa-
nied with a Slave Manifest & landed them without a permit, the con-
sequence was, that I libelled his Wessel—if the practice was permitted
to be continued, we should soon have Africans in abundance into this
State
I am very Respectfully Sir your mo, obt. Servt.
Signed BEV. CHEW
ALEXANDER SCOTT Esq." Collector Pensacola
[Endorsed] B. Chews letter to A. Scott with H. M. Brackenridge's
Letter of 12th Sept. 1823.
40 Not found.



742 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Alexander Scott, Jr. to William F. Steele
Collectors office PENSACOLA 19th July 1823
SIR Information has been given me by an Inspector of the Customs
attached to my Office that James Forsyth Master of the Schooner
Thomas Shields from New Orleans has landed at this port Four Slaves
without having previously obtained the necessary permission required
by the Act of Congress approved March 2* 1807.
As this is a violation that admits of no palliating Circumstance
I deem it my duty to institute Suit against him for the recovery of
the penalty prescribed and to solicit your attention to it on the part
of the United States
I am Sir Your Obt Selvt
A. SCOTT Junº D. Collector
Wm F. STEELE Esq. U. S. Attorney for West Florida
[Endorsed] A. Scott Junr. to Win F. Steele with H. M. Bracken-
ridge's Letter of 12th Sept. 1823.
William F. Steele to Alexander Scott, Jr.
U. S. Attorneys office W. F. PENSACOLA 20° July 1823
SIR Your communication of yesterday morning informing me of a
violation of the Act of Congress passed or approved March 2* 1807.
in regard to the landing of Slaves brought coastwise, has been re-
ceived. You observe in your note that you “deem it your duty to
institute Suit against him, (the Capt.) for the penalty prescribed,
and you then add “I have to Solicit your attention to it on the part
of the U. States”
If I am to understand you Sir to request that an action be brought
in your name for the penalty prescribed in the 10* Section of the
Act aforesaid in the usual form of qui tam “actions, I will proceed to
institute the suit, and act as your attorney in the Case with pleasure,
but if I am correct in Supposing you to request me to file a suit in
the name of the U. States, or the U. States & Alex" Scott Junº Dep”
Collector &" and to prosecute such suit in this matter in my official
capacity, I must decline being concerned in the affair, since the 10*
Section of the said Act gives only a “qui tam” action against an
Offender, and renders it therefor doubtful (to say the least) if either
the Att” or Collector can prosecute or sue officially.
I am Sir Respectfully Your Obt Servº
Signed WILLIAM F. STEELE U. S. Atty W. F.
41. A statutory action brought by an informer to recover a penalty for infraction
of the law.



FLORI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 743
A. Scott. Junº Esq." D. Collector
N. B. My additional reason for declining to bring the suit, is that
I am informed that verbal permission was granted by your “Inspector”
privious to the Negroes being landed.
[Endorsed] W* F. Steele to A Scott jun' with H. M. Brackenridges
Letter of 12th September 1823.
JOHN FITZGERALD AND COMPANY TO THE SECRETARY
OF STATE
[NA:SD, Printing and Distrib. of Laws:LS)
PENSACOLA Sep 16. 1823
HON. J. Q. ADAMS Secº of State
SIR, Early in May last we presented our account for publishing the
laws of the Territory of Florida in the “Floridian” to Gov. Duval and
were informed by him that it had been forwarded together with the
account of the printer at St. Augustine for the same service—We were
also requested by the Governor to publish the Laws of the U. States
in our paper and were promised by him that he would apply to the
Dept of State for our appointment as publishers of the Laws and it was
supposed by him and by ourselves that as West Florida composed a
Judicial district there would be no doubt that the dept would accede
to his proposition. As we have received no information on the subject
we take the liberty to request that you will inform us as to the fate of
our bill and of Gov. Duvals application.”
We have the honor to be Your obedt servts
JNO FITZGERALD & Co
[Addressed] Hon John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washing-
ton City [Postmarked] Pensacola Sep 19 Free
[Endorsed] Fitzgerald John & Co Pensacola 16 Sep 1823 received
9 Oct
FONTAINE MAURY TO WATERS SMITH
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 20 Sep 1823
WATERS SMITH Esquire S*Augustine
SIR. Your Letter to the Secretary of the 9” instant,” has been duly
received, as was that of the 15 April to which it refers,” enclosing a
list of the several claims upon the Corporation of Sº Augustine, the
first of which came to hand at a time when the Secretary was much
* No reply found.
* Ante, p. 735.
* Ante, p. 666.



744 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
occupied on business of the most pressing and important nature; and
at a time too, when I was confined by illness which is the only cause I
can assign for your not being advised of its having reached this Depart-
ment. The Secretary is now absent and will not return until about the
10°h of next month, when your Statement shall be laid before him, but
seeing no vouchers to any one of the items in it. I would recommend
that you forward them in the most accurate form in which they can be
obtained, and without delay, as the best means to secure the spedy
accomplishment of the object you have in view.”
I am with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant
FoNTAINE MAURY Ag"
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1823: LS)
ST AUGUSTINE 23rd Sept. 1823.
SIR, The Citizens of this Territory and of the neighbouring States
have many fugitive Slaves running at large in the Southern part of
this paninsula, and I am obliged to request of you to make application
to the President of the United States for a sufficient force to have
them apprehended.
I have received information, that a considerable number of these
Slaves have established themselves on Pine Island at the mouth of
Charlotte river, & are well armed with Spanish Muskets &cc, & that
they refuse to permit any American to visit the Island. The Indians
state that some Spaniards are with them who have several small ves-
sels carrying from one to three Guns each & that these Negroes are
employed in cutting timber on the Island, and in fishing for the Ha-
vanna market. The owners of these Slaves continually solicit me to
send a force to take them, but I am unable to comply with their wishes,
as I cannot call out the Militia without an order to that effect, nor
have I the means of arming or obtaining rations for those who might
be employed. If the President would permit me to call out fifty or
sixty of the mounted Militia, to be placed under the command of the
Indian Agent, Col. Humphreys, who should also be empowered to
take with him such Indian force as may be deemed necessary, these
slaves can be apprehended; there must be several hundred of them in
Florida. I hope the President and yourself will at once perceive the
importance of authorizing me to act speedily in arresting the refugee
Slaves at Pine Island, and elsewhere in this Territory.
As the Agent Col' Humphreys will hand you this letter, I refer you
to him for such other information on this Subject as you may desire
to obtain; & all the arrangements which the Government may deem
* See post, p. 782.



FL, OR I D A T E R RI TOR Y 745
proper in order to carry into effect the objects of this communication
may be made with him. I have the utmost confidence in Col Hum-
phreys & assure you that he is an active, and energetic Agent, pos-
sesses a great command over the Indians, & has rendered his Country
during the late Treaty the most valuable services. -
I have been been informed by Gentlemen upon whom I can rely,
that there are about ninety negros, fugitives from this Province and
the neighbouring States, on St Andrews Island one of the Bahamas, &
about thirty more on the Great Bahama & the neighbouring Islands,
those Negros went from Tampa Bay, & Charlotte Harbour, in boats to
the Florida Keys from whence they were taken to the Bahamas by the
Providence Wreckers, The slaves might be obtained, if Com. Porter
be ordered to demand them from the authorities at those Islands.”
I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most ob" Servº
Wm P. DUWAL
HON. John C. CALHOUN Secret” of War
[Endorsed] Duval W. P. Sº Augustine 23 Sep 1823 relative to fugi-
tive slaves in Florida.
WILLIAM REYNOLDS AND ANTONIO ALWAREZ TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. September 23rd 1823–
Having arrived in the course of our examination of the Spanish
Archives to that part of them which contains the Correspondence
between Don Juan de Estrado and Don Sebastian Kindelan formerly
Governors of the Province of East Florida, and D. B. Mitchell com-
missioner on the part of the United States, Brig. General Thomas
Flournoy, Major General Thomas Pinkney and other Officers of the
U. S. Army relative to the operations of the United States Troops in
East Florida, It having been requested by sundry individuals that
the said Correspondence should be retained, as being considered im-
portant in the establishing of the Claims of Sumary inhabitants of the
Territory against the U. S. Government for losses sustained by the
operations of said United States Troops and Georgia Volunteers, and
not feeling ourselves authorized by our present instructions to retain
them as “relating directly to the property and sovereignty of the
Provinces of East and West Florida” we beg leave respectfully to refer
the subject to your consideration and request that you will inform us
whether Correspondence of the kind here alluded to shall be retained
by us or not *—
* No reply found.
* No reply found.



746 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
With great respect we remain your Mo. ob Sts
WILL REYNOLDS
ANTONIO ALWAREZ
HoNº" JoHN Q. ADAMS-Secy of State.
[Addressed] Hon” John Q. Adams Secy of State Washington D.
Col” [Postmarked] St. Augustine 23 Sept Free
[Endorsed] Reynolds W* & Alvarez Antonio 23 Sep 1823 Recd 9
October wish Instructions in relation to the correspondence of D. B.
Mitchell and others
WILLIAM REYNOLDS AND ANTONIO ALWAREZ TO
FRANCIS J. FATIO 48
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: Dup.]
ST. AUGUSTINE 24* Sep 1823–
SIR. We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of
the 23° instant * in which you inform us of the resolution of the
Honorable the Board of Land Commiss” of the 13th inst.” In reply
we beg leave to state that the Documents therein alluded to, do not
as yet belong to the Office of the Keeper of the Public Archives, and
that they having been taken out of our possession contrary to our
will, we cannot again take possession of them without instructions
from the Department of State to that effect.—
With much respect We remain your ob. Sts
WILL REYNOLDS
ANTONIO ALVAREZ
F. J. FATIO Esquire Secº B. L. Commissioners (Duplicate)
[Endorsed] with Wº Reynold’s Letter of 30° Sep 1823."
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1823:LS)
ST AUGUSTINE Sep 26* 1823
HoNº" JoHN. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
SIR. The necessity of the Agent of Indian Affairs, speedily making
his establishment, and taking up his residence in the Country allotted
to the Florida Indians, will readily occur to you. I am unacquainted
* Secretary to the Board of Land Commissioners for E. Fla.
49. Not found.
* “Resolved, That the public papers received by the commissioners in virtue
of a subpoena duces tecum, and by them ordered to be transcribed, be returned
to the keeper of the public archives by the secretary of the board, and that tran-
scripts of the same be immediately translated” (A.S.P., Pub. Lands, III, 775).
* Post, p. 755.



FL, OR I. D A T E R R ITO R. Y 747
with the usual practice of your Department as to the provision made
in such cases.
The buildings actually required for the Agency will I suppose be
provided for, as it is obvious that the Salary allowed the Agent will
not allow him to meet this expense.
By the treaty, the Florida Indians are to be furnished with rations
of Corn, Meat, & Salt, fer the hative; for one year from the first of
Febr' next; if beef be furnished, with Corn, & Salt the ration will I am
satisfied not cost more than from 12 to 14 Cents, and perhaps some-
what less; the Corn if bought at New Orleans, & shipped to Tampa
Bay, will not there stand more than 40 Cents a Bushel, & beef can be
purchased on foot at from 6 to 8 Dollars the hundred weight, & driven
into the Indian Country. If this course be pursued the expense will
be greatly diminished. These remarks are respectfully submitted
for your Consideration.”
I have the honor to remain your most obed" Serv"
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” John C. Calhoun Secretary of War Washington
Favd by Col" Humphrys
[Endorsed] 26 Sep" 1823. Gov" DuVal recommends an early estab-
lishment of the agent among the Indians—Relative to buildings for
the accommodation of the agent &c Duval, W. P. St. Augustine, 26th
Sepr 1823 recommends an early establishment of the Agent among the
Indians—relative to buildings for the accomodation of the Agent &c.—
THE INDIAN COMMISSIONERS TO THE SECRETARY OF
WAR
[NA:OIA, Ratified Treaty File, 1823:LS s]
S*AUGUSTINE 26. Septr—1823–
SIR. On the 21* instant you were advised by mail of our having
concluded a Treaty with the Florida Tribes of Indians “–The 24
* No reply found. See post, p. 752.
* Printed also in A.S.P., Ind. Affairs, II, 440–441.
*NA (OIA, Treaties, Talks, and Councils), printed ibid., pp. 439–440. It is
a brief letter announcing the conclusion of the treaty at Moultrie Creek, and that
it would be delivered to the Secretary of War by Agent Humphreys, who would
leave St. Augustine for Washington within a few days.
The treaty was concluded Sept. 18, 1823; the original text is in NA (SD, Indian
Treaties), and is printed, 7 STAT. 224–226, with names of signers, and Kappler
(ed.), Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties, II, 203–207, also with names of signers,
and A.S.P., Indian Affairs, II, 429–431, without the names. The treaty
was ratified Dec. 23, 1823, with the exception of article X, by which the Indians
made land grants to Gad Humphreys and Stephen Richards (Senate, Ezec.
Journal, III, 352). By the terms of the treaty, the Seminoles placed themselves
under the protection of the United States and ceded to it all claim or title to the



748 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
Article of the Treaty, accompanying this will inform you of the Bound-
aries assigned them, which with the other articles agreed on will be
found in our opinion to correspond with the spirit of our instructions,
as well as the humane policy of our government—The want of a
knowledge of the Country South of Charlotts' Harbor, and the
impossibility of inducing competent individuals to explore, or of
obtaining any satisfactory information relative to that region, neces-
sarily prohibited the Commissioners from confining the Indians to
that quarter agreeably to the views of the Executive as first expressed
n our instructions—A Northern Location, though desired by a Ma-
jority of the Indians, was violently opposed within the limits recom-
mended by Gen' Jackson; to have extended beyond those limits
would have been injurious to the best interests of Florida—A Southern
location was objected to by the Indians on the ground that the Country
South of Tampa did not contain a sufficient quantity of good land to
furnish the subsistence of life—That force only could drive them into
whole Territory of Florida except a large reservation, to which the Indians were
to be removed, and a half dozen small tracts reserved to six of the principal
chiefs who were to be allowed to remain thereon with their connections. For
the boundaries of the reservation lying in the heart of the peninsula east of Tam-
pa Bay, and the chiefs’ reserves, see Charles C. Royce, Indian Land Cessions in
U. S. (Bureau Amer. Ethnology, 18 Annual Rept., pt. 2), plate 14, cession desig.
118, 119, 176, 184, 185.
The journal of the proceedings, which embodies also a number of relevant
documents for the period Apr. 7–Sept. 26, 1823, is in NA (OIA, Treaties, Talks,
and Councils), and is printed, A.S.P., Indian Affairs, II, 431–441. The docu-
ments in question anent the treaty, not otherwise printed or cited in the present
volume, are as follows: the Secretary of War to Gadsden, July 31, 1823 (ibid.,
p. 436), that if the Indians are unwilling to concentrate south of Tampa Bay, the
alternative would be the Appalachicola, as suggested by Jackson; DuVal to George
Murray, July 29, 1823 (ibid., p. 435), that Murray has been appointed secretary
to the Indian commissioners, and that he was expected to mark out the spot for
the treaty meeting and to attend to other necessary arrangements; id. to Lt.
Brown, assistant commissary, July 31 and Aug. 28, 1823 (ibid., pp. 435–436,437),
relative to rations for the Indians; id. to Capt J. Erwing, Aug. 26 and Aug. 27,
1823 (ibid., pp. 436, 436–437), concerning a military guard for the conference;
Gadsden to the Secretary of War, July 29, 1823 (ibid., p. 435), that Agent Hum-
phreys had reached St. Marks and would assemble the Indians to the treaty
grounds; id. to Richards (interpreter), June 7 and June 9, 1823 (ibid., p. 433),
that the commissioners expect him and Humphreys to assemble the Indians from
west of the Suwanee; id. to Humphreys, June 6, 1823 (ibid., p. 432), that Sept. 5
had been agreed upon with the Seminole chiefs for the conference and Humphreys
is requested to make all arrangements for the attendance of the Indians; Hum-
phreys to Gadsden, July 3, 1823 (ibid., p. 435), that the chiefs of the Seminoles
west of the Suwanee would be informed of the Sept. 5 meeting; Capt. J. Erving
to DuVal, Aug. 27, 1823 (2 letters, ibid., pp. 436, 487), that a guard would be
provided for the treaty conference; talks at the conference, Sept. 6, Sept. 10, and
Sept. 11, 1823 (ibid., pp. 437-439). In addition, see DuVal to the Secretary of
War, Sept. 1, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.), that Humphreys had arrived
at St. Augustine Aug. 20 with 850 chiefs and warriors.



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 749
those limits, and that they were well convinced that the Americans
possessed the power, and they not the ability to resist—The Indians
therefore threw themselves on the protection of the U States; and
appealed feelingly to the humanity of the Commissioners not to
locate them in a country in which they must inevitably starve—We
knew nothing of the Country but from vague, and contradictory
representations; the appeal therefore was listened to so far as to
embrace within the limits assigned the Indians a small tract of Coun-
try about 30 miles north of Tampa Bay, containing within its bound-
aries many of the Settlements of the Southern Chiefs—Even this
extension North was not considered as removing the objections
urged; to satisfy therefore all parties and convince even the Indians
of the humane disposition of the American government towards
them, an article was incerted that if on examination by the Com-
missioners &c appointed to run the line it should appear that there
was not a sufficient quantity of good land within the limits allotted
them, then the North line should be extended so as to give satisfaction
on this point—
The reservations made in the Appalachicola district were in favor of
six influential Chiefs, whose assent to the Treaty could not have been
obtained without this equitable provision for them & their connec-
tions—They are all represented to be men of industrious habits, and
who have made some advances in civilization—Blunt & Tuske-Hajo
have been long friendly to the Americans, and rendered essential serv-
ices to Gen' Jackson during the operations in Florida, on the termina-
tion of which they were permitted to reside where they now do under
the protection of the United States, with a promise that when the
Indians in Florida were disposed of, the provisions now made for them
should be taken into consideration—We view these reservations as
among the most favourable terms of the Treaty; The lands allotted .
each Chief & their connections are so limited, as to force the occupants
into the civil habits and pursuits; while so large a subtraction is made
from the Indian population to be concentrated, as to render that pop-
ulation more easily manageable
The Treaty however was the best we could effect and we are inclined
to the opinion that the boundaries to which the Indians have been
limited will be found, on reflection, to be the most judicious in a Na-
tional, as well as Territorial point of view—Justice has been done to
the Indians by assigning to them a sufficient quantity of tillable land,
with the addition of an extent of Territory alike favourable as hunting
grounds, and for the grazing of Cattle; while the position is so central
as to admit of being encircled by a white population capable of over-
awing and controlling their uncivilized propensities—
We deem it our duty before closing our mission to invite your atten-
tion to some important subjects as intimately connected with the



750 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
accomplishment of the views which have dictated the policy pursued
by the U States towards the Indians—It was a misfortune to Florida
as a frontier Territory and with her maritime exposure to have any
Tribes of Indians within her boundaries—It would have been a Na-
tional benefit to have removed them to a more interior position; but
as this seems to have been impracticable; the only course left was
that which has been adopted—The Confining the Indians within cer-
tain limits, and in that part of the Territory least objectionable—This
being accomplished it is indispensable for the benefit of the Indians;
as well as the future security of Florida that all intercourse with foreign
Countries or Individuals exercising an influence over them be cut
off, and that an exclusive control be obtained and maintained by the
American Government—This is only to be effected by the immediate
establishment of Military posts at the Bay of Tampa, Charlotts Har-
bor, and at some other point near Cape Florida on the Eastern Coast,
with such other salutary laws regulating the Trade with them as your
own sound judgement may dictate—It is scarcely necessary to state
to you that a Majority of the Indians now inhabiting the Territory of
Florida and included as parties to the treaty just effected, are wan-
derers, if not Refugees from the Southern Indians—Many of them are
of the old Red Stick party whose feelings of hostility have only been
suppressed not eradicated, and even the Native Seminoles have ever
been of a most erratic disposition—These Indians are now scattered
over the whole face of Florida, but a small portion of them having any
settled residence; a majority wandering about for such a precarious
subsistence as the esculent roots of the woods, or the misfortunes of
our Navigators on the Florida Keys may afford—
To bring together these discordant and fermenting materials; to
embody such a population within prescribed limits, aſnd] to conquer
their erratic habits will require in some degree the exercise of authority,
with the presence of a military establishment adequate to enforce it—
These Posts therefore, in our opinion, should be established before
the boundary line is run and marked—Such a military disposition of an
adequate force would produce an impression upon the Indians most
favourable to an immediate concentration within the limits allotted—
The Military establishments recommended from the protection they
would afford, will further induce an early settlement of the country
now open to the enterprise of emigrants; the presence of which popula-
tion will assist materially in forcing the Indians within the limits
allotted them & in obtaining that control so much desired—
As an act of justice to Lt Ripley who commanded the detachment
of Troops on the Treaty ground; & of Lt H Brown the Asst Commis-
sary of Subsistence we most cheerfully testify to the Zealous, active &
faithful discharge of the various duties assigned them



FLORIDA. T E R RITOR Y 751
Col Humphreys Indian Agent, & Mr Richards the Interpreter like-
wise rendered us essential services during the complicated difficulties
we had to encounter—In assembling and marching the Western
Indians through a Wilderness of 250 miles in extent to the Treaty
ground, they have been exposed to privations & expenses giving them
strong claims on the Department of War for extra compensation; the
equitable adjustment of which is submited to your consideration * by
Your Most obt Servants
Wm P DUVAL
JAMES GADSDEN
BERNARD SEGUI
THE HONB J. C. CALHOUN Sec War
[Endorsed] Duval, W. P. J. Gadsden & B Segui &c St. Augustine,
26 Sepr, 1823 relative to the Florida treaty with Indians.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE Septr. 29* 1823
HON” JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State.
I have addressed several letters to you on various subjects relating
to the interests of this Territory to which I have not received any
anSWer.
I shall in three weeks from this time leave this City for the purpose
of regulating the Police of the several interior counties of the Territory
and to examine, the nature of Country is.” value &c.—any communica-
tions, which you may make to me will find me at Pensacola, where my
dutes will shortly require my presence
It affords me satisfaction to add that content and harmony is com
pletely restored in this quarter of the Territory and nothing on my
part shall be omitted, which can serve the interests of the united
States or the Territory
With sentiments of high respect I am your obt. Sev"
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon" John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] Duval Gov" Sº Augustine, 29 Sep 1823 Recd 25 State
of things in E. florida is about returning to West.
*See post, p. 752.
** Meaning “its”.



752 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd. 1823:ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 29 Septr 1823
SIR. Governor Duval has requested me to consent to act as one of
the Commissioners provided for to run the boundary line as concluded
on by the late Treaty with the Florida Indians—I have said to him
that I would so far comply with his wishes as to write a private letter
to you explaining my views on the subject, and stating how far my
services may be demanded if required by the Executive—The situation
of Commissioner adverted to, is not to be coveted, but I am willing to
act in said capacity provided in so doing I can be instrumental to the
immediate accomplishment of the objects to be effected by the Treaty
lately concluded with the Florida Indians, and render any service
to the Territory of Florida—The boundary line of the Country South
allotted to the Indians can only be run at a certain season of the year,
& if that season is permitted to escape a postponement to a subsequent
one is inevitable—This Season: is confined to the winter months or
between the 1* of Jan’ & 1 of April—The reservations on the Appa-
lachicola may be laid off at most any season, but the most favourable
would be the months of November or December—The sooner the line
of demarkation is defined, the sooner will the Indians concentrate,
and any delay on the part of the U States may produce an opinion
among the Indians that the National Government is not determined
on an object of vital importance to the prosperity of Florida—It is not
necessary to disguise the fact to you, that the treaty effected was in a
degree a treaty of imposition—The Indians would never have volun-
tarily assented to the terms had they not believed that we had both
the power & disposition to compel obedience—
The Impression made therefore should not be lost; a military Post
should be immediately established at the Bay of Tampa, & the bound-
ary line commenced & run as soon as the season will permit—Should
the Executive therefore concur in opinion with me on the above view
taken of this subject & is willing to act conformable to that view—I
have no objections to make an effort to be useful in the Capacity of
Commissioner—
It is natural to wish to succeed in what we undertake:-Success
would be doubtful if the Commissioner was unsupported at least with
the presence of a Military force within striking distance of his opera-
tions; & failure inevitable if he attempts to contend against the
elements—
From all the information I can gather relating to the country
allotted the Indians, the hunting grounds in particular are innundated
during the spring & summer rains—It is in winter only that they can
be traversed, it is at that season only that they can be penetrated with
comfort & without sacrifices of health—I am willing therefore to



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 753
act as Commissioner, provided I can be immediately appointed & can
receive the necessary orders for the immediate execution of the duties
as such—In this event I should proceed directly to the Appalachicola,
& survey the reservations made in that district—This could be accom-
plished by the time you would be prepared to send a garrison to the
Bay of Tampa, with which I could move & commence my labors
South—
Should the above view of this subject correspond with your own;
& my services be required; & the Executive feel disposed to associate
any one with me; I take the liberty to name to you Lt James Ripley
of the Army; with the remark that his appointment would be gratify-
ing in the extreme to me—Lt Ripley commanded the Guard on the
Treaty ground & rendered the Commissioners essential services
during the complicated duties of their mission He possesses the quali-
fications necessary in a preeminent degree—The only objections to
the propositions submitted anticipated by me, are the possible
unwillingness of the Executive to act before the ratification of the
Treaty—But may not this obstacle be obviated on the plea of policy
or necessity—If the running of the line is postponed untill the Treaty
is ratified it is very problematical whether it can then be run this
season—To delay concentrating the Indians another year would be
seriously felt in the Territory of Florida—It would be subjecting her
fate to another embarrassment & she has already labored under
many—The expense I hope will prove no objection for I should be will-
ing (if necessary) to make no demands on the Treasury untill advised
of an appropriation; advancing the requisite amounts myself—The
plan which I would submit for the execution of the duties of Com-
missioner would involve very little expense comparatively—The
Commissioner or Commissioners to receive from the Dep" of War an
order to the Commanding Officers at S*Marks & at the Bay of Tampa
to furnish such facilities as their commands would afford—From the
former the men necessary to run the lines of the reservations might
be furnished; & from the latter the men & (guard if found necessary)
to run the line South—A Surveyor I would not require but would
prefer the selecting a Subaltern officer from those Posts or Pensacola,
to receive an extra compensation for his services—Or if you would
prefer it a Lt of Engineers might be detailed as Surveyor, this latter
arrangement would be more agreeable to me & if equally so to you
I would mention the name of Lt Ogden “who is now at Mobile Point;
The expenses of the Commission would therefore be small & confined
to the pay of Commissioners: Pay to Indian accompanying Commis-
sioners, Extra to officer acting as Surveyor; & men acting as assistants
in carrying chain & instruments, Pack Horses; and Contingencies
* Cornelius A. Ogden.
301867–57—49



754 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Accompanying this you will receive a map with the Country
allotted to the Indians delineated *—Little confidence is to be placed
on the accuracy of Vignole's map *—as to the Interior of the Country;
the Sea Coast may be correct as he had resort to some of the best
English & Spanish Charts—The interior of Florida has never been
explored. that I can ascertain—Vignoles made but a short excursion
into the Country West of St Augustine—He never was more than 20
miles South of Alachua–The position of Okahumky & other Indian
villages as laid down by him is grossly erroneous—this error has been
corrected in the map sent you
I shall leave this for Charleston S^ C in a few days with an intention
of returning immediately to this place—I shall remain in that City
however for an answer to this letter,” as should my services be wanted
as Commissioner my destination would in some measure be changed—
I wº in that case proceed direct for St Marks
Your ob Sert
JAMES GADSDEN
[Endorsed] Gadsden. J. Sº Augustine, 29* Sep 1823 relative to
running the boundary lines under the late Florida Treaty &c.
* Not present.
* Charles Blacker Vignoles, was a young Englishman, formerly in the British
Army, who arrived in Charleston, S. C., in the fall of 1817 and became engaged
in surveying and mapping for the state of South Carolina. He removed in the
summer of 1821 to St. Augustine, Fla., where he was named surveyor and civil
engineer of the town. He opened a surveying and land office and advertised for
surveying work (St. Augustine, Fla. Gazette, Sept. 8, 1821). There was little work
in that line, however, so he set out travelling about the territory with the idea of
preparing a book and maps. He submitted to Capt. John R. Bell, on Dec. 17,
1821, a “Report to accompany the Map of part of East Florida,” which is in
NA(GLO, Bd. Land Commrs., E. Fla. Reports). In the same place is a “Descrip-
tion of northern part of Florida by Charles Vignoles” dated Jan. 28, 1822. Copies
of these reports are in NA (WD, CE, Bulky File No. 40). Capt. Bell's letter of
Dec. 19, 1821, acknowledging the first report and map, is printed in Olinthus J.
Vignoles, Life of Charles Blacker Vignoles (London, 1889), p. 87. For services in
the Indian Department under Captain Bell, Vignoles seems to have been paid
subsequently by the United States Government (Secretary of War to Vignoles,
Apr. 25, 1823, NA, OIA, SW, Lets. Sent, Bk. E). Towards the end of the summer
of 1822, Vignoles arrived in New York. In that place was published in 1823 his
Observations Upon the Floridas (N. Y., E. Bliss & E. White), and in the same year
his map of Fla. was published by H. S. Tanner of Philadelphia. A manuscript
map by Vignoles, in NA (WD, CR, CE, TB), dated 1822, bears the title “Saint
John's River from the Bar to the Cowford Drawn from an old British Survey by
Charles Vignoles, Surveyor & Civil Engineer Saint Augustine, 1822d.”
* See post, p. 779.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 755
WILLIAM REYNOLDS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
ST AUGUSTINE September 30” 1823–
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of an order from
the Department dated the 4* Sep 1823.” signed Daniel Brent Chief
Clk. in which I am required “to deliver over to the Board of Com-
missioners at St. Augustine for ascertaining claims and titles to
Lands in Florida the public Documents transfered by Govt Coppinger
to the American Comm" at the cession of East Florida to the U. S.” as
it is well known that I have no Documents of that kind, and that those
under my charge are part of those taken from Gov' Coppinger and
D" Juan de Entralgo the Public Notary on the [blank] Sep 1821 by
virtue of an order from General A. Jackson then Governor of this
Territory. Presuming it might have been intended to refer to them,
and being desirous to act in this affair so as to meet the approvation of
the Government, and knowing that a delivery of those papers would
be very injurious to the inhabitants of this Territory as it would
prevent them from obtaining Copies of their titles to Land and pre-
vent them from going into the trial of many cases at the Novº Term.
I thought it the most prudent and correct course to submit the affair
to the consideration of Mº Macon the United States District Attorney
which I did in the following letter Marked A When Mr. Macon called
at my office I explained the nature of the different Documents and
shew him the impossibility of separating the papers relating to Land
claims without cutting the Books and thereby distroying many other
Documents such as powers of Att’ mortgages, Bills of Sales, Protests,
Wills &c. and also that a delivery of the whole would place in the
hands of the Land Com” more than 100.000. different Documents
which have no relation to lands whatever. On the day following I
received from Mr. Macon the reply marked B. and in consequence
of the opinion therein expressed, coinciding with my own as well as
that of many other inteligent Gentlemen of the place and more particu-
larly as Judge Blair (one of the two only Commissioners now present)
has given it as his opinion that it would be depriving the inhabitants
of the means of obtaining copies of Sundry Documents interesting to
them, and would place in the possession of the Board a very great
many papers entirely useless and which have no relation to Lands, I
have determined to keep possession of the Documents untill further
instructed by the Department which I communicated to the Board in
the following letter marked C. I have therefore to request that
you will furnish me with such instructions" on this subject as may
* NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XX). See Brent's letter to the land commissioners,
ante, p. 734.
61 Not found.



756 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
appear necessary and proper to enable me to conduct the Office in
such a manner as to give satisfaction to the Gen' Government as
well as the inhabitants of the Territory.—
With great respect I remain Your Most obedient St
WILL REYNOLDS “Keeper of the Public Archives”
HoN" JoHN Q. ADAMS Secy of State Washington
[Addressed] To/ The Hon” John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Reynolds Wm. St Augustine, 30 September 1823 Recd
17th October. Public Documents.
[Enclosures]
William Reynolds to Edgar Macon
[September 1823]
EDGAR MACON Esquire U. S. D. Attorney for E. Florida.
SIR, I this day received the following communication from the
Department of State. “The Keeper of the Public Archives at S*
Augustine, Department of State Washington 4* September 1823,
Sir, In the absence of the Secretary of State, I am directed by the
President of the United States to request you to deliver over to the
Board of Commissioners, at S*Augustine, for ascertaining claims and
titles to Land in Florida, the Public documents transfered by Governor
Coppinger to the American Commissioner, at the cession of East
Florida, to the United States; which documents are stated to be now
in your custody, I am respectfully, Sir, Your obedient & humble
Servant Daniel Brent, Chief Clerk” ”—By the terms of the above
order you will perceive that I have not a single document in my
possession of the kind therein described. The documents under my
charge as Keeper of the Public Archives are some of those taken from
Don Juan de Entralgo and Don José Coppinger (chiefly from the
former) on the [blank] September 1821., by virtue of an order from
General Andrew Jackson, then Governor of the Territory of Florida.
Mº Hamilton one of The Honorable The Board of Land Commis-
sioners, is however of opinion that the order embraces all the Archives
in my Office.—I am of a different opinion; and as I am extremely
desirous to conduct the business of the office in such a manner as will
give entire satisfaction to the general Goverment, as well as to the
Governor of this Territory and its inhabitants, I have to request
that you will call at my Office and examine into the nature of the
documents, and the manner in which they were kept by the Spanish
Government, and give your opinion in writing as the United States
District Attorney, whether it would be consistent with Public interest
to deliver over the Archives in my office to the Honorable Board of
Land Commissioners, or whether it would be proper to separate them
* The text of this letter is also found in NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XX).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 757
and diliver over any part of them; with the understanding that the
Honorable Board and Secretary have now and always have had, free
and uncontroul’d access to the Original documents in my office, and
that I have furnished copies when required to do so.-
I remain with great respect, Sir, Your Obedient Servant.—
WILL REYNOLDS “Keeper of the Public Archives”
(Duplicate) St Augustine Sept
[Endorsed] Letter to Mº Macon U. S. Atty. A with Wºn Reynolds
letter of 30 Sep 1823.
Statement of Edgar Macon as District Attorney (East Florida District)
DISTRICT ATTORNEYS OFFICE September 29, 1823.
At the request of the keeper of publick Archieves of East Florida,
I have examined his office and feel no hesitation in saying that a
surrender of the papers in his possession will be attended with much
inconvenience and detriment to the inhabitants and persons holding
or claiming property in this territory. Those accustomed to the
regularity of American offices, can form no conception of the manner
in which Spanish offices are kept; their proceedings and records are
huddled together without any regard to order or system, for a bill of
sale, mortgage and power of Attorney, though totally unconnected,
are sometimes recorded upon the same sheet of paper; and at the end
of the year all papers relating to that year, no matter of what nature,
are bound up into a volume, though it has not unfrequently happened
that in many instances the publick documents have not received this
attention
Should the keeper of the publick Archieves place them in the hands
of any person, I cannot conceive how many suits can progress, espe-
cially where they relate to personal property, or where powers of
Attorney are called in question; in as much as the person into whose
hands they may come, cannot give certified copies of them, and that
such copies if given, would not be received as evidence in a court.
Every person who will take the trouble to inspect the archives of
East Florida, must say that a seperation of the papers relating to land
from the papers connected with personal property, without a destruc-
tion of all written evidence of right of property in East Florida is
totally impracticable.
EDGAR MACON District Attorney of E. Florida
As an individual, it is but justice to Mr Reynolds, that I should
state, that his office has at all times been open to the land comissioners
and their secretary, and that he has afforded them every assistance.
Edgar Macon.
[Endorsed] Opinion of Mr. Macon U. S. D. Atty. B with Wm
Reynolds Letter of 30 Sep 1823.



758 T E R R I TOR 1 A L P A P E R S
William Reynolds to Francis J. Fatio
ST. AUGUSTINE 30* September 1823–
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 25.”
enclosing me an order from the Department of State of the 4* inst.,
by which I am required “to deliver over to the Board of Commissioners,
at S*Augustine, for ascertaining claims and titles to Land in Florida,
the Public Documents transfered by Governor Coppinger to the
American Commissioner, at the cession of East Florida, to the United
States.”—As I have no documents of the above description in my
office, and thinking it might have been intended to apply to the
documents relating to Lands which were taken from Don Juan de
Entralgo and Don José Coppinger (principally from the former) by
virtue of an order received from General Andrew Jackson, then
Governor of this Territory—I shall refer the matter to the Department
for further instructions which when received shall be promptly com-
municated in the mean time reasuring you that in conformity to the
Act of Congress passed on the 8” May 1822 the originals in my Office
are as they always have been open to your use and examination at
all times *—
I remain, Sir, Yº Ob' & humble Servant
WILL REYNOLDs “Keeper of the Public Archives”
F. J. FATIO Esquire Secretary B" L" Commissioners (Duplicate)
[Endorsed] Letter to Secy of Board of Land Commissioners C with
W" Reynolds Letter of 30 Sep 1823.
WILLIAM REYNOLDS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE Sep. 30. 1823
SIR In addition to my remarks on the subject of the Archives I
beg leave to state that by the third section of the Act of the Legislative
Council of the Territory of Flor" passed on the 31* of August 1822
entitled an “Act for the appointment of keepers of the Public Ar-
chives,” “ by virtue of which I recd my commission, and which “Act”
has been approved of by Congress, I conceive I can not consistently
with my duty and Oath of Office, part with the possession of any
original Document which was deliver,d to me at the time I took
possession of the Office—The words of the Law are “That it shall not
be lawful for the said keepers of the Public Archives to suffer any
Original Document to be taken from their Offices, unless otherwise
required by law, nor to alter or destroy the same”—This opinion is
however submited with great deference—believing as I do that it is
not the wish of a majority of the Commissioners to take possession of
** Ante, p. 496.
* Fla., Acts (1822), pp. 46–48.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 759
papers when it is so self evident that great injury must result there-
from to the inhabitants of this province, and their having had free &
uncontrould access to the Originals, which access I felt myself bound
give them, & which is still continued to them—
I would therefore respectfully suggest (as I am a young (public
officer and extremely desirous to acquit my self to the entire satisfac-
tion of Government) should there remain any doubt after having
heard the opinion of Judge Blair & M" Macon that the opinion of
Judge Floyd (the absent Commissioner) should be given on his return
after he has examined the nature of the Documents in my Office &
the manner in which they have been kept—
I have the honor to be your Mo ob St
WILL. REYNoLDs “Keeper of the Public Archives”
HoN" John Q ADAMS Secy of State Washington
[Endorsed] Reynolds W* St Augustine, 30th Sep 1823 Recd 16
October East florida Records.
MEMORIAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY BY
LOT-HOLDERS OF ST. AUGUSTINE 64
[NA:GLO, PLC, East Fla. Repts.: DS 85)
|September 1823]
To THE HONORABLE WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD Secretary of the Treasury
The Memorial of the Subscribers Lot-holders of the City of S'
Augustine humbly Sheweth—
That your Memorialist in common with the holders of Land in the
country have been Suffering great difficulties hardships and em-
barassments for two years in consequence of the protracted and
undetermined condition of the claims of the United States to lands in
this territory—
Thus Situated, Your Memorialists trust it will not be deemed un-
reasonable thay they represent to your department their full conviction
that neither the interest nor policy of the United States require a
determination of the land claims in any other mode than such as is
consistent with equity economy Simplicity and dispatch—
Of the lots in Sº Augustine to which this Memorial has exclusive
reference, that part belonging to the United States was officially
designated and a Schedule thereof dilivered by the Spanish Authorities
to those of the United States and to this Schedule your Memorialist
humbly beg your reference as being ample and Sufficient evidence of
the extent of public property within the limits of this City—
* Enclosed in W. W. Blair to the Sec. of the Treas., Sept. 24, 1823 (NA, GLO,
PLC, East Fla. Repts.).
* A copy is in NA (HF, Orig. Repts. Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess.). Printed,
A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III, 759–760; House Exec. Docs., 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 91–93.



760 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
The lots of private property are upwards of Three hundred in
number and have passed thro chains of title, Some commencing in the
Seventeenth Century and the greater part early in the Eighteenth
Century and these chains or deraignment of title are not only on record,
but the facts of descent, conveyance and Occupancy are Matter of
great public Notoriety—
Your Memorialists further represent that they are fearful [that the
late act of Congress prescribing the mode of ascertaining] *land claims
may be so construed as to make it necessary that the lot-holders of
S” Augustine Should furnish the Commissioners with Copies of the
deraignment of title, and your Memorialists beg leave to urge on you
the inexpediency of such a construction from the following considera-
tions—
First Copies of all the titles to lots in Sº Augustine Would appear to
be unnecessary because they are already on record in the public
Archives—
Secondly The lot-holders would not only be put to great incon-
venience from delay, but Many of them are absolutely unable to pay
the expence attendant on the copying of such voluminous documents—
Thirdly Such a construction of the Law would have the effect of
retarding the public business and operating to the ruin of many indi-
viduals who have already Suffered so Severely from delay—
and lastly If by inadvertence or otherwise the Official Schedule
referred to Should be defective, in omitting any public property Such
defect your Memorialists humbly Submit to be of comparative insig-
nificance and can be remedied either by the personal Knowledge of the
land commissioners or by a few hours enquiry—
Under these considerations your Memorialists pray that you will be
pleased to instruct the land commissioners or otherwise Act in the
premises so that the lot-holders of Sº Augustine may be releived from
the expence and inconvenience and the public from the delay attendant
on Such a construction of the law—
G. W. Perpall as Attorney for Joseph S. Sanchez as Attorney
Jn” Bunch, for Margaret Acosta and
Jn.” Addison, Fran” Musculini
Pedro Rodriquez, John M. Fontane
Fran Gonzales Louis Latouche
F. Arribas, Jose Ximenez
S. Fish por mi i mi Suegra Mabrity
for my Self & as attorney for for Myself & as attorney for
Charles Lewis and Joseph M. Hernandez
Francis Richards Petrona Valdez
Antonio Alvarez Magdalena Sanchez
* MS. torn, bracketed portion supplied from printed source.



F"L OR I DA
Tº E. R. R. I T OR Y 761
Pablo Rosete and
Maria Puello
Franºº P. Sanchez
G. W. Perpall
Chaº Robion
C. Zully
W HSimmons
Horatio S Dexter
J: Aallin Smith by his agent C.
Zully
Antonio Mier
Antoi'o Moresoeoca
for Juan Rivero
Pr Menard
Rafael Andreu
Francis Gué
Por my Pr my Sra Madre
Dº Catalina Hernandez y
como representante los
Herederos, de la difunta
D Luisa Ferreira, y
D Antº P. Andreu
Pedro Benet
Por my Sra Madre
Dº Mantina Hernandez
qº no sabe firmar
Jose Pomar
Por mi Sor. Padre
D. Juan E. Gonzales
qº no save
Juan F. Gonzales
Por my, y por
D Jose Bean
Juan Mestre
William Francis
John Geiger
Pablo Sabata
Gabriel Triay
Antº J. Triay
Por mi Sra Madre
Doña Mariana Sans
qº no sabe escribir
Mno Antº Berta
Peter Mitchel for Self and
Robert Mitchel
Robert Isaac and
A L Molyneux
For my Self and atorney of
F. M. Arredondo Senº
Juan Arredondo
P. Co Ms. torn)
F. M. Arredondo
Bºº Castro y Ferrer
Por mi, mis hermanos
Dº Domingo y
Dº Franºº Reyes,
Dº Juan Huertas
Dº Cizila Guadarrama
Dº Antonio Huertas y
el Pard Wºº Lesley.—
José B. Reyes
Por Dº Ynes Generino y
Dº R Margarita Rivero
F. M. Arredondo
for my wife Julia Burgevin
Andrew Burgevin
Daniel Hurlbert
Lº Duvigneau
John B. Strong
P Poirier
Charles Edmondston
pº P Poirier, Agent
Franºº J. de Medicis
Franºº Marien
Franºº Marin for the Estate of
Ponce Joseph Sanchez
José M. Sanchez
John Gianople
Por my, pº D. Benito Segui y
pº Dº Andres Lopez
Jose Hernandez
Christina Hill
por mi Esposo
Don Jose Hernandez, y mi
Vecina
Doña Maria Bonely que no
saven escribir—
Madalena Andreo
como apoderado de
Don Justo Lopez,



762 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Doña Maria Sotelo, y
Don José Fernandez
Antonio Mier
as representative of the
Minor children of
Francis X. Sanchez—
Fran” P. Sanchez
Sam" Cook
Fedoro Cliarquebier
por mi, por mi hermano
Don Diego, y como
apoderado de
Doña Brigida Gomez—
Pedro Miranda
Pierce Rowe
as agent for The heirs of
John Forbes
John B. de Entralgo
The heirs of
C. W. Bulow and
William Laurence
William Travers
Por mi Sra Madre
Doña Clara Arnao,
Don Pedro Fusha,
mi hermano
Don Jaime Arnao, y por
mi. mismo
Esteban Arnau
Isaac Wilkes
Thom(MS. torn)
Rich" Murray -
Agent Beneta Ponce
Pab" f Fontane
Felipe Solana
Meynardie de nadalie agent
to the hr' of Fougera
Meynardie de nadalie
A. Gay
Geronimo Alvarez
Nicolas Estefanopoli
Nicolas Rodriquez
W" Livingston
Tho. H. Penn
Bo Llambias
Elias Wallen
D: Fleischman
Joseph S. Sanchez
for John M. Sanchez
Franco Ferreira
Por mi Señora madre
D* Maria Solana
Manuel Solana
Maria B. Sanchez
Por mi, por mi Sor Padre
Don Bartolome Mestre y
mi abuelo
Don Juan Lorenso
que no saben escribir
Bartolo mestre
Joseph T Pepoon.
THE HON W H CRAwFORD Washington City
PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT BY INHABITANTS OF THE
TERRITORY
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., C248:DS]
St AUGUSTINE Octſ 4th 1823
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
The petitioners whoes names are underwritten, beg leave to represent,
that the Territory of Florida, whilst it was a possession of foreign
nations, was a refuge, for fugitive slaves from, the United States, and
particularly from the States of South Carolina and Georgia. That
property of this description, has at various times and to great amounts
been allured from the possession of its rightful owners; or escaping
voluntarily, has been protected & defended not only by the Indians,



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 763
but by the Constituted authorities of the province; so that from the
date of the Revolution up to the Change of Flags, it has been utterly
impossible for your petitioners, and other Sufferers, to reclaim their
property.—We beg leave also to represent, that since the latter event,
notwithstanding the difficulty of exploreing the Country, many of the
Claimants have succeeded in ascertaining, where their Negroes are to
be found; that some of them are claimed to be the property of Indians;
some are still in a state of freedom in the Indian Territory, and are
protected, by the regulations, made to restrain the intercourse of the
Whites with that People, Some have escaped to an Island or Cluster
of Islands off the Western Coast of Florida, & are protected by an
armed Banditti: Others have been carried, by Wrecking Wessels from
the Cape & keys to the Bahamia Isles.
Your petitioners know not the number of all, or either of these
detachments, but have much reason to believe, they amount to more
than One Thousand—Your petitioners (some of whom have been
deprived of the use of their property, ever Since the War of the
Revolution) in Common with the numerous Class of Sufferers in the
States before alluded to, looked, with Great anxiety to the acquisition
of this Territory, as a period to their privations, but were bitterly
disappointed, when their hopes were postponed to a time, infuturo &
uncertain when a treaty should be held with the Indians.—
That period has arrived and elapsed, without bringing with it any
redress for our long Continued wrongs, the Commissioners not having
any authority, to make or execute any arrangement on the Subject:
so that, whilst the Law furnishes to the Indians ample means of
redress for the aggressions of Whitemen, we are Constrained to look
on with patience, whilst they possess and enjoy the property, justly
and rightfully Ours;–And still it is held obnoxious to law, and
improper, to take from their Territory, even those negroes, that are
unclaimed and unpossed by the Indians; and this too at a time, when
there is much reason for believeing that they are gradually escapeing
from the Continent; or, alarmed at the Change of Government, are
putting themselves under the protection of individual Indians, who
claim them as their private property merely to protect them from
their rightful owners.
To arrest these inconveniences, Your petitioners appeal directly,
to the Chief Executive of the United States, with a confident belief
that he will exert his ample power, to restore them to their long
defered rights. To this end they beg leave to suggest to Your Ex-
cellency, the investiture of ample discretionary power, in the Governor
of this Territory, in whom your petitioners have the most unlimited
Confidence: together with the erection of such a tribunal as will be
able to test the right of property in Contest between Indians and
Citizens of the United States.



764 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
But these suggestions are made, with the Greatest defference, and
with the utmost Confidence, that the facts being now before Your
Excellency, Whatever is right, will be done: "
With These Sentiments and wishes we are your prayerful petitioners
A. Buyck administrator Estate of Francis R. Sanchez
G. Du Pont Pabº F. Fontane for himself &
John M. Fontane— Mateo. C. Solana
f. J. fatio Franco Ferriera
Juan A. Cavedo. Manuel M. Varguez
as a representative of the Minor R. D Fontane
children of Francis X. San- Fran” Medicis
chez—Fran” P. Sanchez Daniel Hurlbert
Abraham Bellamy Jº for John Robert Rowley
Houston. Esteban Arnau
Joshua A. Coffee for Estate of Richard Murry
William James F. M. Arredondo
Sam" Cook Franco Maren
B. S. Sanchez José Ximenez
Joseph S. Sanchez for himself.
& John M. Sanchez
[Endorsed] Cook, S & others St. Augustine, 4 Oct, 1823 relative to
lost Slaves, &c.
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA, W. F. October 5* 1823.
GENERAL, Conformably to your order of the 15* May last,” I
have the honor to report such facts relating to the proposed roads
to be cut, as I have been able to procure from information & by
personal observation, with Estimates of the probable expense attend-
ing each.-
From this place to Blakely there are three Routes now travelled.
The first by carriages, crossing the Perdido River at a Ferry 21 miles
from here, and thence until it intersects the Road from Blakely to
Claiborne, 14 miles above Blakely. The Second is a trail crossing
the Perdido at a ferry a few miles lower down & thence directly to
Blakely. The third, also a trail, to a ferry over the Perdido where it
expands into a Bay three miles wide. The first of these Routes is
estimated to be 70 miles, the second 53 & the last 65 miles. Each
passes over level pine barren. The first & last cross no streams
except the Perdido. The Second, besides the Perdido, crosses the
Rocheblave & Styx—inconsiderable Streams easily bridged. The
" Answered post, p. 820.
* Ante, p. 683.



F L O RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 765
Middle Route is to be preferred because it connects the two places in
the shortest line & will be but little more expensive than those which
are circuitous. I recommend however that it should cross the Per-
dido at the upper ferry, because where the trail crosses it, the river
Swamp is nearly a mile wide and so low as to render a raised causeway
or kind of bridge necessary for most part of that distance, whereas
there is no Swamp at the upper ferry; it will not increase the distance
more than 5 miles to cross here & besides a Bridge can be thrown
across the River at this point without difficulty & at a small expense.
I estimate the entire expense of this Road at $4200.-There is a trail
from this place towards Mobile point, crossing the Perdido at the
lower ferry, but it terminates at the head of Bon Secour Bay, an Arm
of Mobile Bay, about 15 miles from the Point. This last 15 miles
however can be travelled on horseback by crossing the narrow neck
of land, about three miles wide, over to the Sea Beach & then on it to
the Point. This neck of land is for its whole extent a succession of
sand ridges running for the most part prallell to the coast, & through
them it would be difficult to find a good route; but it is quite possible
that one may be obtained by digging away the intervening cross
Ridges & thus connecting the low intervals with each other. At all
events the Sea Beach will itself afford a firm though exposed road.
Instead however of crossing the Perdido at that ferry, I would recom-
mend establishing a new one still lower down crossing it where it is
only half a mile in width & by this ferry the route would be more direct
perhaps than that the trail now is upon. There is another route
might be adopted for the road to the point;-to continue on the pro-
posed Road to Blakely until it crosses the Perdido & then file off to
the left for the head of Bon Secour Bay & thus avoid the wide ferry
altogether; but this would be circuitous, 70 miles at least, whereas
the direct route will not exceed 50 miles.—I estimate the expense of
opening this Road on either route at $6000.
I beg leave also to suggest the propriety, as well as importance in a
military point of view, of connecting Blakely with Mobile Point, by a
road to intersect that from Pensacola at the head of Bon Secour Bay;
the distance from Blakely to the point of intersection will be about
35 miles.—I estimate the expense of this road at $3000.-Blakely is
connected with Mobile by a Steam Boat, Ferry Boat; the distance
between the two Towns is nine miles.—
From this place there is a good Wagon Road to Frazier's, (marked
Taitsville on the map) near which place it forks, the left via Sizemore's
ferry on the Alabama River to Jackson & St. Stephens, & the right
to Claiborne; there is also a Road direct to Burnt Corn from Fra-
zier's.-St. Stephens and Claiborne are connected with each other by
good roads for a newly settled country, also with all the important
points & Towns of Alabama. There is a very good road from St.



766 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Stephens, East of the Tombeckbee River, via Tuscaloosa and Hunts-
ville, A. to Nashville in Tennessee. A Road, I understand, has been
laid out from Tuscaloosa to Claiborne & which Is in part already
opened. A Road North from Pensacola into Alabama would strike
the River at Cahawba. This Road was laid out last Spring by the
inhabitants of Alabama & of Florida. Running South from Cahawba
it strikes the Escambia River at Beauman's ferry near the Territorial
line. I am informed that the people of Alabama contemplate opening
their end of this Road shortly, & the Floridians are endeavoring to
raise a Sum by subscription sufficient to open their part.—The
Settled parts of the State of Alabama are very generally connected
with each other by tolerable Roads, & only require some to be cut for
general purposes in doing which the aid of the Government will be
at all necessary. The Road to Frazier's requires to be straitened &
improved & the Road to Beauman's ferry also ought in my opinion
to be opened. I estimate the expense of doing both at $4000,—that is,
$2000 for each.-
Pensacola, though possessing no importance at present in a com-
mercial point of view, will gradually become a place of considerable
export. There is a vast tract of fertile Country rapidly populating
of which she is the natural place of deposit. The roads proposed to be
opened are important in promoting the Settlement of the Territory,
as well as highly important for military purposes. In a future mari-
time War, the advantages resulting from having a secure harbor for
Wessels in the Gulf of Mexico, easy of ingress & egress, where they
can not only be supported by a military force from the rear, but be
abundantly supplied with provisions & water, will give to this City &
Port their true character & Rank. All the Roads contemplated can
be conveniently opened by the Troops on this station in a very few
years with advantage to themselves and to the Government. Want of
occupation is the bane of the military profession & the monotony of
a Garrison life seldom fails to enervate the officer and destroy the
efficiency of the Soldier.—
I enclose for your inspection a map of Alabama" published in
August last & received a few days since from Philadelphia. I have
sketched on it the Roads & trails spoken of in this letter. You will
perceive that the trail is marked on it from Deer point towards St.
Augustine; " and also that which I recommended for the Mail Route
* Not present.
70 For other letters from Capt. Burch regarding the St. Augustine-Pensacola
road, see Boyd, “First American Road in Florida,” Fla. Hist. Quar., XIV (Oct.
1935, Jan. 1936), 73–106, 139–192. In NA (WD, QMG Letters Recd.) are
other letters from Burch of July 4, 1823, being a report on the use and disposal of
oxen, mules, horses and a boat, and of July 5 concerning the retention of a clerk
necessitated by his absence on road business. In the same file is a letter of Oct. 10
from Col. Duncan L. Clinch inquiring as to the use of troops on the road.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 767
from Fort Mitchell. Should the mail hereafter be established on this
Route, I have to observe that it would also be more direct to Mobile
than the Route the mail now travels to that city.—
If I should happily succeed in laying out the Roads already ordered
in such manner as to give satisfaction to the Department, I should be
exceedingly gratified to be ordered to survey & lay out the Roads to
Blakely & Mobile Point.”—
I have the honor to be Sir, with the most perfect respect, Yº Mo.
Ob. Serv't
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
To/BRIG: GEN THOMAs S. JESUP Q* M: Gen' U. S. Army. Wash-
ington City, D. C.
P. S. When you have done with the Map I will thank you to return
it to me.—
[Endorsed] Capt. D. E. Burch Pensacola—5 Oct. 1823. Com-
municating information concerning roads to Blakely &" requred in
Q Mr Gen order of 15 May last—30 Oct 1823.
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO GASPER ROSY
[NA: PO, PMG Letter Book B]
POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. 6 Oct 1823
GASPER ROSY FERNANDINA East Florida-
SIR I have yr. memorial of [blank] date, " the Post route to which
you have reference was advertised the last year & a number of pro-
posals recº the proposal of M* Floyd " was thought to be the most
advantages one and was consequently accepted—if that route becomes
vacant your proposition will have due consideration.”
WILLIAM REYNOLDS TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE 8* October 1823–
FONTAINE MAURY Esq."
SIR I take the liberty of enclosing you our accounts for one Quarter
Salary as Commissioners appointed by the Secretary of State of the
United States,” to examine and make an inventory of the Archives
71 Acknowledged post, p. 837. See also post, pp. 832, 855.
72 Not found.
* A contract was made in 1822 with John Floyd for the carriage of mail between
St. Marys and St. Augustine during the period Jan. 1823 to Dec. 1826 (H. Doc.
104, 17 Cong., 2 sess., p. 17). - - -
* See post, p. 786.
* Not present.



768 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
and Documents taken from the late Spanish Authorities in East
Florida–In the prosecution of this important and delicate trust we
found it indispensably necessary to appoint a respectable and com-
petent Clerk who understood both the Spanish and English Languages
which we conceived we had a right to do by the terms of our Com-
mission—We have engaged his services at one dollar and fifty cents
per day and hope his account will be allowed—
You will much oblige me by presenting the accounts and if allowed
forward the amount in separate Drafts, of the amount of each
account—In consequence of the hurry of the moment I only enclose
you my own Aſc at this time but shall forward the others by next
mail 79–
Very respectfully I am your ob St
WILL REYNOLDS
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq." Washington Dist. Colum"
[Postmarked] St. Augustin Oct 14 Paid 50
[Endorsed] W* Reynolds Sº Augustine 8 Oct 1823 Red 31
SECRETARY WALTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA, 12* October, 1823.
DEAR SIR; Requiring the friendly assistance of some Gentleman at
Washington City, in adjusting my business with the Department of
State, and being better acquainted with yourself than any other
individual at that place, though my knowledge of you has been derived
from the transaction of official business, and the recommendations of
Judge Breckenridge, and my much lamented friend Dr. J. C.
Bronaugh, I have taken the liberty of addressing you upon the subject.
I am extremely anxious to make a final settlement with the Depart-
ment, in relation to the monies in my hands, and for that purpose
enclose my accounts with the necessary vouchers. I also forward you
an order for one quarter's salary which you will be so good as to apply
to the discharge of any balance which may appear against me. The
charge in favor of M*M*Neil, who acted as Clerk, whilst the duties of
Governor as well as those of Secretary of the Territory were performed
by me during the absence of Governor Duval, I think perfectly correct,
as it has heretofore been allowed in similar cases in this Territory.—
The item charged for the disbursement of the public money, I view
as reasonable and just. I do not believe, that it was contemplated by
the Government, that I should incur the risk and responsibility of
holding a large sum of public money in my hands, and making the
disbursements with out some compensation—
* Answered post, p. 785.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 769
Whatever balance may remain in my favor after settlement, you
will oblige, by transmitting it to me, in the shape of a check on the
Branch Bank at New Orleans. This business would have been sooner
attended to, but for my absence at St. Augustine. I wish my account
closed, if possible, before the meeting of Congress. Your attention
to this business will confer on me a great obligation.”—
With my best wishes for your health and happiness, and with a
sincere desire to become personally known to you, I remain Sir,
Yr. Mo. Obt Hble Sert.
GEO. WALTON
FoNT. MAURY Esq.
[Endorsed] Col. Walton, to Col. Maury
WATERS SMITH TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
Mayors Office City of Sº AUGUSTINE 14* October 1823–
FONTAINE MAURY Esq."
SIR Your letter of the 28” Ult” on the subject of the claims on
the Corporation of this City, was this day received; ” In reply to the
part where you recommend that I forward vouchers in the most
accurate form; I deem it my duty to state; that when this Territory
was a Spanish Province, the concerns of this City were managed by
an Alcalde (or Mayor) and a board of Aldermen elected by the
people, who continued to exercise the duties of their offices for some
time after the cession; and until General Jackson by ordinance
dissolved that body, and himself appointed a Mayor and six Aldermen
with authority to levy and collect taxes to meet the city expences;
Congress however prohibited by law the collection of taxes by the
City Council appointed by Gen' Jackson.
The present Corporation are elected by virtue of an act of the
Legislative Council,” and consider themselves bound to see the debts
contracted by their predicessors paid; without possessing the means
of doing so—and having doubts of their authority to tax the Citizens
for that purpose—
When Gen' Jacksons Council came into office the city was not in
debt: The present Corporation have paid their expences, and owe
nothing; all the demands against this City originated with Gen.'
Jacksons Council: The President of the United States, as communi-
cated to me by the Hon' the Secretary of State has been pleased to
” Answered post, p. 792.
** Not found.
* Approved Sept. 13, 1822, providing for the formation of the corporation of
the city of St. Augustine and the election of a mayor and aldermen on the first
Monday in November (Fla., Acts, 1822, pp. 86–87).
301867–57 50



770 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
direct that these Debts (and which principally arose during the
prevelance of the fever of 1821) should be paid, and I can only state,
that the accounts and certificates forwarded in April last, are all the
vouchers which can be furnished at this time: I have no doubt but
they will by the Secritary of State be deemed satisfactory—when
the money is paid to the individual creditors, their receipts will be
taken and forwarded to your Office, to shew that the money has
been justly and truly disbursed—The individuals who had claims on
the former City Council, presented their accounts to them, and as
there was no funds in the Treasury, their accounts were examined,
the sums due stated, and a certificate given for the amount, to be
paid when in funds; and an entry made on the Corporation books—
Many of these certificates have been assigned, and passed into differ-
ent hands—
I state these facts to shew, that it is not possible for the present
corporation to furnish vouchers until they pay the money”
With much respect I remain Your obed" Serv'.
WATERS SMITH Mayor of the City of Sº Augustine
[Endorsed] Smith Waters Sº Augustine 14 Oct 1823 R* 2 Nov
WILLIAM SEBREE TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA W. Florida 16th. Oct 1823.
SIR, Judge Brackenridge has ordered one of the public Buildings
in this Place, to be repaired and fitted up for a Court House and Jail
for the use of the Superior Court of the U States for this District;
and has directed me to cause the work to be forthwith done, so as
not to exceed $1500 –
I have contracted for the work; it is in a state to be completed
very shortly—The work in repairing this Building, for the purposes
above named, has been indispensible as there is no such thing in the
District of West Florida as either Court House or Jail—Cases are
very frequently occurring which makes it absolutely necessary that
the government should have some safe place of confinement for
prisoners—on this last, I have much difficulty, having either to apply
to the Military Authority, or to hire a guard when prisoners are
apprehended under the laws of the U. States—The Court could not
be accommodated without those repairs on the House, as it was both
inconvenient, and uncomfortable; besides the Building belongs to
the Government of the U. States, and the House is well worthy of
those repairs; without them it would be soon worth nothing; with
them it will be a good building for 20 years. There is no law in force
* Answered post, p. 782.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 771
in this Territory, by which money can be raised from the Inhabitants
to [build] either Court House or Jail; Congress having at the last
Sission repealed the act of the Legislative Council authorising a tax
to be levied for the purpose of building Court Houses and Jails"—
In making out the Abstracts for Court expenses for the September
Term, I have put into Abstract no. 4, $1500 for those repairs—
I have been unable to determine whether I should have done so or
not, not knowing upon what fund to draw?
If the fund appropriated for Court expenses generally, cannot pay
for such repairs; or if there be a special appropriation for the purpose;
or if I should have drawn upon the fund appropriated for the Territory
of Florida; or it be a Subject of reference? In the latter case will you
be kind enough to submit the matter to the President? If the former
please give me such information, through the Hon. John T. Johnson,”
(who will be in the City by the 1st of Decr) as will enable me to pro-
ceed correctly, as the money will be wanting as early as possible?
I shall set out in two or three days for Kentucky and shall return
with my family to this place in the Spring—If any other communica-
tion from me should be necessary, to arrange this matter, I should be
glad to be advised of it through my friend Mr. Johnson before I leave
Kentucky?
If it should be a Subject to be Submitted to the President, and paid
out of the Florida appropriation; if it be allowed, will you have the
goodness to hand the draft to the Hon. John T. Johnson, who will
forward it to me? Such information (should there be any difficulty
attending it) as you can give me on the Subject will be most thankfully
received—Judge Brackenridge has written to Joseph Anderson
Esquire, on the subject “–With Sentiments of the highest respect *
I am Sir, your humble, and most obt. Sevt.
WILLIAM SEBREE Marshal W. Florida.
FONTAINE MAURY Esquire Agent of the Florida Appropriation.
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esquire
[Endorsed] W* Sebree Pensacola 16 Oct 1823 Reº 5 Nov
* Approved Mar. 3, 1823, 3 STAT. 750–754 (sec. 16).
* A Representative in Congress from Kentucky.
& Not found.
* Reply, if any, not found.



772 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
THE LAND COMMISSIONERS (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letter:LS)
PENSACOLA 20°h Oct 1823–
SIR, The Commissioners for ascertaining claims and titles to lands
within West Florida, have not been enabled to find in the public
Archives of this place a list of the public property surrendered by the
Spanish Authorities when this province was delivered to his Excellency
Governor Jackson under the Treaty; we have been informed that there
is a Schedule in the Department of State, which will be important to
us in the discharge of our public duties in ascertaining the individual
claims of this part of the Territory—We have therefore to request
that you will direct a copy from the Schedule to be forwarded to us.
We have the Honor to be, With high considerations of Respect,
Your ob" Servants—
SAM" R. OVERTON.
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] Hon: John Quincy Adams. Secretary of State, Wash-
ington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola Oct 24 Free
[Endorsed] Overton Sam' R White J. M-Pensacola 20 Octr 1823
Rec" 13. Nov. Enquire if there is in the Dep". of State, a Schedule
of Public property surrendered to Gen' Jackson under the Treaty
with Spain.
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA, W. F. October 21* 1823.
GENERAL, I have the honor to report that I shall commence my
march to St. Augustine on or before the 23* Inst. I shall probably
be absent until about the middle of January and in the mean time
shall not be able to furnish monthly summary statements &c as
heretofore. So soon as I return I shall render my accounts for the
4* Quarter in this year.”—
I have made such arrangements as I believe will ensure the regular
supply of fuel, forage, Stationary &c, to the troops, during my
absence.—
Since the receipt of your letter on that subject I have endeavored
to engage a competent clerk to leave my office in care of, but without
success.-I have therefore retained Capt. Crupper in public employ
while I am employed in the Survey of these Roads, trusting that
when all circumstances are considered the amount thus disbursed will
be allowed to my credit either on his receipt for the money or on a
** See post, p. 835.



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 773
charge in my own name for the amount actually paid for clerk hire.—
If your order directing me to make these surveys had also authorized
me to suspend my duties here I should not have required a clerk for
the time being, and after my return I could have made out for a while
with any person who could write a good hand and was somewhat
versed in accounts. But I was not relieved & moreover it would
have been very difficult to have got any officer of the line now here
to relieve me, so much reluctance exists among the officers to embar-
rassing themselves with public accounts in a staff appointment only
temporary.—I am now accountable for all supplies that are purchased
and delivered during my absence on contracts made by myself; and
my own security, & the safety of those who signed my Bond, rendered
it necessary for me to leave in charge of my office, a person who knew
precisely what was allowed by Regulations, & who, out of personal
friendship for me, would attend to getting the proper Returns &
receipts & keep my papers in order; these considerations may be
trifling to those who are not responsible but to me they all are im-
portant—accidents may happen to me in the Wilderness of Florida
& my securities must not be troubled about any final settlement of
my accounts.--This is the only instance in which I have ever de-
parted from the strict letter of my orders, (and I viewed your letter
as an order to discharge Capt. Crupper) but I have done what I
thought was not only necessary for my own safety, but for the public
interest. I know too well the difficulty of keeping property accounts
square especially of forage & of fuel; and even if I should lose the
amount thus paid for clerk hire, I shall at least have the satisfaction
of being able to render my accounts on a final settlement without
soliciting allowances for losses or deficiencies.—
So far as it regards the legality of employing Captain Crupper it
appears evident to me that when a Citizen, whose services cannot be
coerced, as in the case of an Officer of the Government, is employed
by a public agent that the fact of the Citizen's being indebted to the
Government can be no bar to his receiving pay, provided the Agent
was authorized to engage the person at all in such employment;-it
would be optional with the Citizen to render those services or not, &
no one would without a prospect of being paid.—In this particular
instance I know Capt. Crupper to be wholly dependent upon his
personal labor for support, and could not have engaged to remain
here, even if he had wished to do so, without an assurance that he
should be paid.—It may perhaps be asked why he does not seek
employment elsewhere;—In reply to this I have only to say that he
preferred remaining with me, (until the receipt of your order to
discharge him,) to other employment although I paid him for his
services less than the Commonest Store-clerk in the Country gets.
Ease & leisure could have been no reason for his remaining here for



774 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I require more writing in the office by one half than is done by any
Clerk at Washington, & living is much more expensive here than
there.*—
I am Sir with perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Servº
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
To BRIG. GEN THOMAS S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. Army: Wash-
ington City, D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt D. E. Burch Pensacola 21 Oct 1823 Roads
13 Nov 1823
FONTAINE MAURY TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XX]
Department of State WASHINGTON 24 Oct. 1823
W* POPE DUVAL Esquire Governor of the Floridas
SIR. I have been directed by the Secretary to request that you
will the goodness to cause to be furnished to this Department, an
account accompanied by the necessary voucher, for the disbursements
you may have made, in conformity with his Letter to you of 5*
November last,” by which you were authorized to draw for $5000
dollars—Your complyance with this request is asked for at as early
a period as may comport with your convenience, as well with a view
to a settlement at the Treasury as to that of closing and sending to
the Surplus fund at the end of the present year what may remain
unexpended of the appropriation of $100000 for the temporary
government of the Floridas *
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Agent
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E]
DEPMT OF WAR 25 Oct" 1823
His ExCELLºy Wºº PDUVALL St Augustine Florida
SIR, Your letter of the 2nd Ult” was duly received.” Upon a review
of all of the circumstances the following principle has been adopted
for the Settlement of your claim to compensation as Supirintendent
of Indian Affairs in Florida, to wit:
For the time past when there was no Indian Agent for Florida,
an allowance will be made to you, as Superintendent, at the rate of
* No reply found.
** Ante, p. 560.
* Answered post, p. 837.
* Ante, p. 732.



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 775
$1500 per annum, which is the rate of compensation allowed to the
Indian Agent now authorized by law.
Since the appointment of an Indian Agent for the Territory in
virtue of the authority above mentioned and for the future, an allow-
ance will be made to you at the rate of $750 per annum which is in-
tended to cover the expense for Clerk hire, office rent and all others
necessarily incurred by you in your intercourse with the Indians;
that being the same amount as is now allowed to the Governor of the
Arkansaw Territory and is considered a fair compensation for all
expenses incurred by him of a similar nature.
If you will forward an account, for your past services, made out upon
the principle mentioned stating distinctly and particularly, the time
that you have acted when there was no Indian Agent for Florida,
and the time since there was an Agent, to the end of the present year
duly certified by yourself, it will be passed to the 2nd Auditor with
directions for its Settlement accordingly.
The allowance thereafter, at the rate of $750 per year may be em-
braced in your quarterly estimates and will be regularly remitted with
the funds required for the other expenses incident to your Superin-
tendency.”
I have &" J. C. C.
JOHN RODGERS 89 TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Captains’ Lets., 1823, Bk. 5:LS)
U. S. Schooner Shark THOMPSONS ISLAND Octbº 25th 1823
SIR I have the honor to inform you of my arrival here on the 23"
instant.—
I have found matters on the Island in rather an unpropitious
State—yet far from being so bad as might have been expected.
Out of about 140 persons on the Island, Officers, Seamen and
Marines, 59 are Sick, principally with intermittent fevers, only one
case out of the whole assuming, at this time a malignant Type—they
are however all in a very low state & I have engaged two vessels which
I found here by accident to Transport them to Norfolk at $10—p"
* Letters of similar import were addressed to George Walton and William G. D.
Worthington on Oct. 21, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. E). See post, p. 925.
* Captain Rodgers, President of the Board of Navy Commissioners, was ordered
on Sept. 29, 1823, after the matter had been referred to the President, to proceed
to Key West to investigate health conditions there and conditions relative to the
advisability of continuing the naval station at that place (A.S.P., Naval Affairs,
1, 1116–1117, also in II, 174–175). See his reports of Nov. 16 and 29, in the second
of which he recommended that Key West could be used as an auxiliary to a perma-
nent southern naval depot to be established perhaps at Pensacola, see ibid., I,
1118–1119, 1121, II, 176–178. Other letters from Capt. Rodgers of Oct. 3, Oct. 6,
and Oct. 22, 1823, concerning the voyage to Key West, and Nov. 1, 1823, relative
to care of the sick, are in NA(ND, SN, Captains' Lets., 1823, IV, V).



776 T E R R I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
head, the three Surgeons who came with me and Surgeon Williamson,”
recommending their removal to a northern Climate as absolutely
necessary to the restoration of their health, The men Still remaining
after the Sick are Sent away will be Sufficient for all the present
exegences of the Service, and I have no reason to think that any
further evil consequences are to be apprehended, as such cases of
fever as have occurred within the last twenty days has assumed a
much milder Type, than, previous to that date, I have just returned
from visiting all the Sick at both Hospitals—It appears they had taken
up an impression that they could not recover in this climate, & on
being told of my intention to send them home every countenance
appeared to beam with Joy—Most of those who have had Yellow
fever have relapsed, into intermittant.—
With the two vessels in which I send the Sick, I shall Send Doctors
Williamson & Hoffman *—leaving Surgeons Mates Conway,” Van
Brunt * & Boyce,” who will be quite Sufficient for any exegences
likely to occur, I would however recommend your Sending out a
Surgeon and one or two mates as soon as convenient to relieve those
gentlemen
Be assured you have nothing to apprehend from further desastrous
consequences, as I shall take care to place every thing in the best
possible State before I depart.—
All the large Wessels I find have gone home except the Spark and
Grampus—The former is I am told cruising on the South side of Cuba
& the latter in the Gulf of Mexico and may probably return here
SOOm.—
Neither of the Schooners which were at Washington when I left
there have arrived—neither has the Ferret Lt. Duncan * yet made
her appearance—The Porpoise Lt. Ramage” was the only vessel of
war found here on my arrival, the Wild Cat and Jackall arrived
yesterday.—
By the first opportunity, I will write you more fully—excuse this
hasty scraul and believe me with Great respect your obdt Servt
JN RODGERS
THE HONBLE SAM' L. SouTHARD Secty of the Navy Washington
* Thomas Williamson.
* Richard K. Hoffman.
* William D. Conway.
* C. H. Van Brunt.
* James R. Boyce.
** Silas Duncan.
** James Ramage.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 777
JAMES H. HANHAM TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE E. Florida Oct' 27th 1823
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
SIR My embarresed situation owing to my exertions to serve the
Public, I hope and trust will be considered an apology for the liberty
I have taken to address you. I was appointed by Gen' Jackson
in 1821. Sheriff of Sº Johns County there being no Territorial
Funds to defray the expences contingent to the Office, I was under
the necessity to expende all the money I could get, and by so doing
contracted debts that I am not able to pay, in many instances gave
my note. soon after the Governors arrival in East Florida I informed
him of my situation and afterwards presented to him my accº which
he informs me has long since been sent to the Secº of State but no
answer as yet has been received.
My creditors got impatient sued me, and what property I have
must be sacrifised if relief is not afforded me immediately. I would
go to the seat of Government for my demand, but the distance is to
great and I have not the means to reach Washington, exclusive of this
dificulty I have a Family dependent on my daily exertion for support
and have been ever since the close of the War, at which time I was
dismissed from the service to give place to a favorite of some one
of the board who made the selection, and soon after was offered by
Mr Dalles then acting Secº of War a first Lieut" Commission to fill a
vacancy in the Artillery, to compensate me for the injury done by
depriveing me of a Capt* Com" in the same corps I have served the
U. S. fifteen years my situation at this time is deplorable indeen,
feeling confident your goodness will excuse the liberty I have taken in
solisiting your aid at this time to the relief of a Public Servant, and
being convinced of the justice of your decision *
I am with the highest consideration & Respect Your Ob" St
J. R. HANHAM Late Sheriff St. J. CY
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe President U. S. Washing-
ton City [Postmarked] St Augustine Oct 28 Free
[Endorsed] Hanham R. St. Augustine 27 Octr. 1823 Recd. 13 Nov—
Claim for Expenses incurred in East Florida. Dept of State St Aug:
a claim.
* Reply not found.



778 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:WD, SW Lets. to Pres., Bk. 297)
WASHINGTON 27* October 1823.
D* SIR, I enclose the proceedings of the Court Martial in the case
of Captain Eastman for your consideration. The case appears to be
a plain one, and he is generally considered as a very unworthy member
of the military establishment.
I also enclose the Treaty with the Florida Indians, with the Journal
of the Commissioners and the letters of Gov" DuVal, and Col. Gads-
den.” The object of transmitting the papers at present is to obtain
your decision on the proposition of the Governor to commence running
the lines forthwith, and to take a military position on Tampe-Bay
for the reasons which he has assigned. It certainly seems desirable
on every account, that another year should not pass away without
concentrating the Indians on the place proposed for their permanent
home; and it is believed, that unless the lines should be run without
delay it will be impossible to effect this desirable object. There is
another reason for acceding to the request of the Governor. So
little is known of the Country which has been fixed on for the Indians,
that the Commissioners have been compelled to have the Northern
limits of the tract, Subject to be altered hereafter, if it should appear,
that there is not a sufficiency of good land in that which has been
reserved. It seems to me desirable that the line Should be definitively
fixed before the Treaty is ratified by the Senate, which may be done
by running the line, and giving our Commissioners discretionary power
for that purpose. The general information which will be acquired
of the tract by runing the line, will not doubt be very Satisfactory
to the Senate, when it comes to act on the Treaty. For these reasons,
and as the expense will be Small, it seems to me that it would be proper
to accede to the request of the Governor. I have no doubt, but
that Col Gadsden, and Lieu" Ripley* are well qualified for the duty
of running the line.
I received your letter enclosing one from Gov. Robertson' on the
Subject of removing the troops from Baton Rouge. I can find no
trace of the resolution of the Legislature of Louisiana, to which the
Governor refers; nor have I any recollection of ever having Seen it.
It will be difficult to reply to the Gov" without having a Copy of the
97 Printed also in Jameson (ed.), Corr. Calhoun (Amer. Hist. Assoc. Annual
Rept., 1899), II, 214–215. There is also a copy in NA (WD, SW Lets. to Pres.,
Bk. 2), under date of Oct. 27, 1823.
* See ante, p. 747.
* James Wolfe Ripley, subsequently (1865) a Major General, U. S. Army
(Heitman, Hist. Reg. U. S. Army, 1, 832).
1 Thomas Bolling Robertson, Governor of Louisiana.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TO R Y 779
resolution, and as it may be among your papers, I have delayed
answering his letter, till you can make a Search for it.
I regret to hear that M* Monroe is indisposed. I would have
written Some days Since, but expected you in the City from what
M* Hay stated, till this morning.
We have nothing new.”
J. C. C.
The President U. States.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES GADSDEN
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. F *]
DEPMT OF WAR, October 29, 1823
COL" JAMES GADSDEN, Charleston S. C.
SIR. The President not having returned to the city as I expected,
I have transmitted to him the treaty with the Florida Indians and all
the papers which accompanied it, with the letter of Gov" Duval *
requesting that you may be immediately appointed the commissioner,”
and that L' Ripley be associated with you to run the lines of the land
assigned to the Indians by the treaty. I have recommended that
the request of the Governor be acceded to, and as soon as I hear from
the President will inform you of his decision.
By a provision of the Treaty it appears that rations of bread & meat
are to be furnished for the Indians, whose number by an estimate which
accompanied the treaty is represented to be about 4,800. The views
of the Commissioners in making the provision are not stated suffi-
ciently distinct to understand whether it was their intention that the
rations of bread & meat are to be furnished indiscriminately for the
whole number, or to those merely, who may move on the lands assigned
to them by the treaty and in such quantitites only as may be abso-
lutely necessary for their subsistence. If the former be the intention
of the Commissioners it will involve a very considerable expense which
may present some impediment to the ratification of the treaty. But
as I am not aware of any reason why rations should be furnished to so
great an extent I am inclined to think, that the latter was their inten-
tion, and I am confirmed in this impression by the opinion of Col."
Humphrey’s. It is desirable however to have distinctly the views of
the commissioners on the subject, & I will thank you for as full an
explanation of them as you may be able to give, accompanied by an
estimate of the probable number of Indians for which in your opinion
rations will be required.
I have &c J. C. C.
* Answered post, p. 782.
* Printed also in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 441.
* Dated Oct. 4, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.). See also ante, p. 752.
* See post, p. 782.



780 T E R R. I TOR I. A L P A P E R S
JOHN RODGERS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Captains’ Lets., 1823, Bk. 5:LS)
U. S. Schooner Shark THOMPSONS ISLAND Octbº 29th 1823
SIR I wrote you on the 25** announcing my arrival here on the
23* inst: and with this transmit, you a duplicate of that communica-
tion.—
There has been no new cases of fever since I wrote you on the 25th:
and I flatter myself, as the weather is becoming gradually cooler, that
none is likely to occur of a worse charracter than intermittant—I am
sorry to say that since Com: Porter's departure, the degree of order
and regularity which ought to have been expected from his example,
has not been maintained—this however has happened not so much on
account of a want of capacity or proper disposition in very many of
the Officers remaining on the Station—(as to the circumstance of some
of those on whom the command has from time to time devolved)
during his absence not possessing the energy, intelligence or discretion
to give proper effect in maintaining discipline and supporting the
dignity of the Service to which they belong.—
Previous to leaveing the Station, I shall make such dispositions of
the several vessels, without changeing materially the plans which have
hitherto been pursued as to carry into effect the Views of the Govern-
ment, and at the same time secure as far as possible until Com:
Porters return, or another Commander shall be appointed, all the
advantages to our commerce, which by his zeal and activity he had
acquired previous to his departure.—In the mean time I would recom-
mend however that a Sloop of War with a discreet intelligent Master
Commandant be sent out to superintend and direct the affairs of the
vessels and Station, until the Commander of the Squadron arrives.—
On my return I shall have it in my power to make a full report on
everything concerning the naval force employed in those Seas as well
as of the establishment on Thompsons Island.
All the observations which I have been enabled to make tend only
to confirm me in opinion of the immence importance of this Island
in a commercial point of View, notwithstanding there may exist some
objections to its climate—the evils attendant on which however I am
impressed with a belief can be greatly diminished by artificial means
& judicious arrangements—Such are within the Control of the Gov-
ernment.—
There are at present only two marine officers on the Station, Capt:
Belvue 7 and Lt Bloodgood,” and as I shall be obliged to send Lt.
Bloodgood home on account of ill health I would suggest the propriety
of sending out one or two Marine Officers by the first opportunity.—
• Ante, p. 775.
7 Francis B. De Bellevue.
* William A. Bloodgood.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 781
Enclosed you will receive a list of the Officers, Seamen & Marines
sent to Norfolk under Charge of Doctor Williamson in the Schooner
Hero—also another of those which I shall Send to the Same Port
under charge of Doctor Hoffman in the Brig Harmony—These will
constitute all the Sick on the Island & on board of such vessels at
present here.—
I have the Honor To Be With Great Respect Your Obdt: Servt
JN RODGERS
TO THE HONBL* SAM' L. SOUTHARD Secy of the Navy Washington
City
JOSEPH M. WHITE TO JOSEPH ANDERSON
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA 31* Oct" 1823–
SIR, I forwarded my accounts to the Treasury Department, ac-
cording to the instructions of some of its Officers, about nine months
since, for services rendered as Atto: for the U. States by appointment
of the Court, after the death of M" Harrison.” I have not received a
line on the subject, until about two months since I received a letter
from Fontaine Maury Esq. directing me to send them to him. I did
so, and in reply to that letter he informed me that they are to be settled
at your department.
Upon a minute examination of the laws of Congress, I am satisfied,
that instead of ten Dollars first charged in each case, I am entitled
to fifteen, being the fee in Criminal Cases in Alabama. As there is no
fee allowed here in Criminal cases, the ten being the Attorney's fee in
Civil cases, I have made out my last accounts in that way. The
District Attorney of Alabama informs me that he is always allowed
extra compensation in prosecutions for Piracy. I will be satisfied to
get what the law entitles me to; and have most earnestly to request that
my accounts may be adjusted in some way and that you will cause me
to be advised of it as soon as practicable."
With great respect &c
JOS. M. WHITE.
Joseph ANDERSON Comptroller—
* See ante, pp. 594, 739.
10 By motion of Del. Call, a resolution was adopted by the House on Apr. 15,
1824, referring to the Committee on Ways and Means the question of allowing a
compensation to White and to William Davidson who had served as marshal of
W. Fla. On May 6 the committee reported a bill which became law on May 26,
1824 (House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 420, 492, 572, 573, 587, 592, 597, 599;
6 STAT. 318). Several other documents dated in April and May 1824, including a
certified account, relative to White's claim are in NA (HF). A further letter
from White to Stephen Pleasonton, Aug. 20, 1824 (NA, JD, Sol. Treas., Lets.
from U. S. Attys. and Clks., Fla.), concerns White's services and the payment
due him.



782 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
FONTAINE MAURY TO WATERS SMITH
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 1 Nov. 1823
WALTERS SMITH Esquire Mayor of Sº Augustine.
SIR. I have received your Letter of the [blank] Ultimo," and hav-
ing good reason to beleive that the Claims of the Corporation of Sº
Augustine will be sanctioned by the President on his return to the
City, I propose to you with a view to facillitate the transmission of
the amount of them, which appears so much wanted, that you sign
and return me the enclosed receipts, and in the event of these claims
being admitted the amount shall be immediately remitted to you—
Otherwise the receipts shall be cancelled or returned as you may
direct—This arrangement is suggested to you as the most suitable
and convenient one, for the adjustment of those claims, since it appears
by your statement that Corporation Certificates have been issued to
the individual Claimants, which perhaps on being paid, ought properly
to be on file with all its other Archives and documents—be pleased to
put all future Letters to me on public concerns under cover to the
Secretary of State *
I am with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Agt
THE PRESIDENT TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., M 170:ALS)
OAK HILL novº 3. 1823
DEAR SIR I return the papers lately recy" from you.” The sen-
tence of the court martial, in the case of Capt." Eastman is approved.
I approve also the proposal of gov" Duvall, for running the lines,
necessary to give effect, to the late treaty, with the Indians in Florida,
without delay. I do not consider that measure, as interfering in the
slightest manner, with the right, of the Senate, as to advice &cc, but
as acquiring the necessary information to enable them to decide, with
satisfaction to themselves, on the treaty. I presume that we cannot
do better than to commit the trust to Col: Gadsden & L' Ripley—
If you think so, transmit to them without delay the necessary power—
The same view, appears to be applicable, to the military position, on
Tampa bay. Those on the ground who are intelligent, honest, & dis-
interested, can give the best council. If you concur, execute the prior
part at once—
11 Ante, p. 769.
1? Answered post, p. 792.
13 Ante, p. 778.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 783
I shall search for the papers mentioned by Gov. Robertson, on my
return to the city. which I hope to be able to do in a few days; M**
Monroe's health is far from being restord, but we hope, that in a day
or two, she may be able to move, by slow journies.
I wish you to obtain from Gen" Scott, the proceedings in the case of
Dr Catlett 14–
Very sincerely dear Sir yours
JAMES MONROE
[Endorsed] Monroe. J. Pres' U. S. Oakhill, 3 Nov 1823 relative to
Court Martial in case of Capt." Eastman—to Florida treaty, &c.—to
proceedings in Dº Catletts case, &c.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES GADSDEN
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. F 15)
DEPMT OF WAR Now! 4.1823.
COLONEL JAMES GADSDEN Commiss" &° Charleston S. C.
SIR I have to inform you that the President has acceded to the
request of Gov" Duvall for your immediate appointment as the Com-
missioner to run the lines of the land assigned to the Florida Indians
by the late treaty with them,” and for Lieut: Ripley to be associated
with you in the performance of that duty.” You are accordingly
authorized to make your arrangements to commence the survey as
soon as practicable, associating Lieut: Ripley with you as your
assistant. As the immediate survey of the individual reservations
is not material and it is important that all information that can be
obtained in relation to the tract assigned to the Indians should ac-
company the treaty when it is submitted to the Senate for ratification,
I would for this reason prefer that this survey should first claim your
attention. The reservations if confirmed by the Senate, can be
surveyed at any time there after.
If, in making the survey of the tract assigned to the Indians, you
should find that the northern line, as defined in the treaty, does not
embrace a sufficiency of good land for the accommodation of the
Indians, you are authorized to exercise a sound disretion and remove
it farther north so as to include the necessary quantity.
The commanding Officer at Sº Augustine will be directed to afford
you every facility in his power in accomplishing the object of your
Commission -
14 Hanson Catlett.
15 Printed also in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 441.
1° DuVal to the Secretary of War, Oct. 4, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets. Recd.).
17 Under Special Order No. 98, Nov. 5, 1823, Ripley was so assigned (NA, WD,
AGO Special Orders, 1822–1827, v. 1).



784 T E R R IT OR I. A L PA P E R S
You will be allowed at the rate of $8 per day while actually en-
gaged on the duties of your Commission, with your necessary
expenses; and Lieut: Ripley will be allowed, the same additional
compensation to his pay in the line as is allowed to Topographical
Engineers while engaged on surveys, (which is $1.50 cents a day)
with his necessary expenses. The payment will be made on your
Certificates of honor as to the time actually engaged.”
The President has also acceded to the proposition for the estab-
lishment of a Military Post near Tampa Bay, and immediate meas-
ures will be taken, through the proper Officer, to effect it. In the
mean time the commanding Officer of the post to be established will
be directed to correspond with you in relation to a proper sight for
such post.”
I have &c, J. C. C.
ORDER BY THE COMMANDING GENERAL
[NA:WD, AGO General Order Book No. 52°]
70 Adjutant Generals Office WASHINGTON 5 Nov. 1823
R* Hº Q" West Dep
Order
Brevet Colonel Brooke with four Companies of the 4* Infantry,
will proceed with as little delay as practicable to Tampa Bay, East
Florida, where he will establish a Military post.
He will select a position with a view to health and in reference to
the location of the Florida Indians, about to be removed to that
vicinity agreeably to the late Treaty—Upon this point he will consult
Colonel Gadsden the Commissioner employed in locating the Indians.
Colonel Brooke will complete as near as practicable the Companies
which go to Tampa from those left at Cantonment Clinch and Bar-
rancas, (recruits will be sent to Pensacola shortly to supply all the
deficiencies in the Regiment), and he will designate the officers to
accompany him, as circumstances may render advisable.
The permanent headquarters of the 4” Infantry will remain at
Cantonment Clinch; and should Colonel Clinch have rejoined his
Regiment on the receipt of this order, he will be charged with the
duty of preparing Colonel Brooke's Command for the expidition to
Tampa.
The Quarter Master's and Subsistence departments will furnish
the necessary transportation and supplies and will make such further
18 See post, p. 818.
1* See post, p. 794.
* Printed also in Karl H. Grismer, Tampa: a History of the City of Tampa and
the Tampa Bay Region of Florida (St. Petersburg, 1950), p. 55.



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 785
arrangements as may be required for the accommodation of the troops
at their new stations
By order of Major Gen! Brown
E KIRBY aide d’ Camp
THE LAND COMMISSIONERS (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]
PENSACOLA 5* Novº 1823
SIR, The Commissioners have found great difficulty in ascertaining
the powers of the provincial Officers of the Spanish Government, from
the circumstances of the removal of the public Archives and the want
of access to the Ordinances of the King of Spain. They have ascer-
tained that the most important ordinance is to be found in a Work in
the Department of State entitled “Neuvissima Recopulation de las
leyes de las Indias”—the Ordinance of Ferdinand the 6* in 1754—it
is the most important and voluminous one that ever was promul-
gated upon the subject of conceding crown lands in Spanish America,
and would greatly assist us in our examination and decision of claims
and titles to land in West-Florida. We have then, respectfully, to
request, that you will direct a copy of that ordinance to be forwarded
to us from your Department, and any other information, as it is the
only place at which we can apply with any prospect of procuring it.
We have the honor to be, With high Considerations &c Your ob"
Servts—
JOS: M. WHITE
SAM" R. OVERTON.
[Addressed] The Honble. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington City [Postmarked] Pensacola Nov. 7 Free
[Endorsed] White and Overton Pensacola, 5 Nov 1823 Recd 27th.
copy Ordinance of the King of Spain
FONTAINE MAURY TO WILLIAM REYNOLDS
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 6 Nov. 1823
WILLIAM REYNOLDS Esquire Sº Augustine
SIR. I wrote you on the 1* instant enclosing a Check on the Branch
of the United States Bank at this place for $450.” since which I have
received your Letter of the 8” Ult. covering the accounts of Alvarez
and Cavedo for the former of which I enclose my Check as above for
$450,” which you will be pleased to hand over to Mº Alvarez. The
* NA (SD, Dom. Lets., XX), a brief cover.
* Ante, p. 767.
801867–57–51



786 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
other account lays over for the Consideration of the President, the
Secretary not having intended that a Clerk should be employed, and
by reference to your Letter of appointment you will find no such
authority given to you?”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Agent
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book A **]
17th Nov. [1823]
A contract has not yet been made for the transportation of the mail
on the route from Sº Augustine in east Florida, to Pensacola, which
was established by act of Congress, in the Session of 1822.
Diligent enquiry has been made, and it does not appear, that there
is a road between these places, on the route designated, on which the
mail can be convey'd. There are Indian paths, which pass through
different Indian Settlements, but none it is understood, that extend
for any considerable distance on the proper direction. The want of
a road, is not the only obstacle on this route. Almost the whole dis-
tance, is an unhabited Wilderness, except a few Indian Villages, and
it is represented, that very large and impassable Swamps and lakes,
will render the passage of the mail, in some places, impracticable.
The lowest responsible bid that has been made for the conveyance
of the mail on this route is four thousand dollars, & it is confidently
believ'd, that the route will not add, two hundred dollars to the re-
ceipts of the department. As this is an established route, I shall deem
it my duty, to accept the best bid which has been made, and close the
contract so that an attempt to transport the mail on it may be made
unless Congress Shall think proper to modify or repeal the law.”
JOHN M*LEAN
FONTAINE MAURY TO ELIAS B. GOULD
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XX]
Department of State WASHINGTON 18 Nov. 1823
E. B. GOULD Esquire
SIR. Your Letter to the Secretary of the 1* instant * covering
your account for publishing the Acts of the Second Session of the
* On Nov. 21, 1823, however, Maury sent Reynolds a check for $185 for pay-
ment of Cavedo's account (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XX).
** Extracted from a general report by the Postmaster General.
* See post, p. 833.
** Not found.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 787
Legislative Council, has been received, and the amount shall be re-
mitted to you as soon as it can be ascertained—The Secretary would
readily accomodate you with the advance you have asked, but as no
partial Settlement can at any time be made at the Treasury it would
be inconvenient and improper to do it.
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant
FoNTAINE MAURY Agt
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:ALS)
ST AUGUSTIN Florida
[Postmarked November 18, 1823]
DEAR SIR I have just seen a military order for the evacuation of
the Post of Sº Marks—As I deem this order premature I take the
liberty of hastily suggesting the suspension of its execution untill the
Indians are removed from the West & concentrated South—
You will excuse the laconic style of this letter but the mail is now
closing & I deemed it important to express my opinion on a subject in
which the Territory of Florida is deeply interested.
Your ob Sert
Wm P DUWAL
THE HONB SEC" WAR
[Addressed] Hon" John C. Calhoun Secretary of War Washington
[Postmarked] St Augustine Nov 18 free
[Endorsed] Sº Augustine W P. Duvall Esq. On the subject of the
Evacuation of Sº Marks. Der 10, 1823 Ans" 11 Dec *
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, x1:LS)
U. STATES ATTORNEY's OFFICE (W. F.) 18* November 1823.
SIR, Upon the termination of the June Term of the U. S. District
Courtin West Florida I addressed a communication to the Department
of State upon the subject of the publick prisons of this District.”
The Grand Inquest for the District of West Florida at the late Term
of November 1823 having deemed it their duty to make a presentment
upon the matter, I take leave to transmit a Gazette which contains a
certified copy of their presentments at the late term, the presentment
in question being the first in order—The view taken of the subject in
* Post, p. 807.
27 Not found.



788 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
this paper of the Grand Jury is not exaggerated, & the situation of the
District is consequently a very embarassed one in relation to this
concern. At the late Term of the District Court two Offenders were
sentenced to two years imprisonment each, who could scarcely have
been detained at all but for the courtesy of Col. George M. Brooke of
the 4* U. S. Infantry, who has consented to accept them until some
arrangement can be made. A previous official application to the same
effect made by myself to Major W* Wilson of the 4” U. S. Artillery
commanding at Fort Barrancas (where are bomb proof apartments
formerly used as state prisons by the Spanish Governors) having been
promptly and positively rejected.—Should the Regiment of Infantry
be ordered to change their position, it is not possible that prisoners
could be safely detained by any means now in the power of the civil
authority.—
I have deemed it my duty therefore and I have the honor to submit
in this way to your consideration the said subject of presentment and
I am Sir with profound respect Your very obedient humble Servant
WILLIAM F STEELE U State's Attorney &c
HoNº" JoHN Q. ADAMS Secry of State U. States
[Endorsed] Steele W* f. Pensacola, 18 Nov 1823 Recd 11th Dec'
State of the prison in West florida.
[Enclosure 28]
Presentment of the Grand Jury of the United States District Court in
the Territory of West Florida
NOVEMBER TERM, 1823.
GRAND JURY ROOM
The Grand Jury for the District of West Florida, for November
term, 1823, holden at the City of Pensacola in said District, in con-
formity with their duty, make the following presentments.
1. The Grand Inquest for the District of West Florida would
respectfully present as a great grievance, the present state of the
public buildings in this District, the edifice in which the Court is held
being ruinous and inadequate to its proper accommodation, and there
being no departments for the public offices; but more especially
the state of the public prisons, in this district, or rather the total want
of them. Refused permission by Congress at their last session to
levy taxes for this and other purposes, and unable (even if taxed) at
this time, to produce any sufficient amount to effect essential objects;
entirely without public prisons of any description, with a population
too thinly distributed to enable the Marshal promptly to summon
citizen's guards for the security of prisoners; situated thus, and lo-
* A clipping from The Floridian, Nov. 15, 1823.



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 789
cated on the extremity of the continent, our District thus, most
liable to be made the harbour of fugitives from justice, who here
resort to commit crimes with impunity, it has become most pecul-
iarly essential to the safety, prosperity and character of this district,
that it should possess the means which safe public prisons afford,
to restrain offenders and insure public justice and happiness. The
Grand Inquest for this District would therefore respectfully, but most
earnestly represent to the government of the United States through
the Delegate from this territory, the necessity and importance of an
early appropriation for the above objects.
2. The Grand Jury for the said District would also respectfully
present as a grievance, the state of things in this District in relation
to the payment of dues from the government, to the officers of Court
and others in this District. In other districts in the United States,
it is believed that the U. S. Marshal is always furnished in advance
with competent funds to pay promptly all the expenditures incurred
during the terms of the U. S. District Courts at the close of each
sitting thereof; while in the District of West Florida, which, from its
recent settlement by citizens of the United States, from the general
character of its present country population, viz: an industrious class
of small farmers, depending upon their own exertions for support;
and lastly, from the extreme pressure of the times, and scarcity of a
circulating medium in the District, PECULIARLY demands the course
pursued in other districts; it has nevertheless been here, as yet WHOLLY
neglected. It needs only to state, that actual disbursements by
Jurors, Witnesses, Deputy Marshals, &c. while attending public
business, upon the sittings of the U. S. District Courts at divers
times for the last ten months, are still due and unpaid by the govern-
ment, causing an extreme hardship to citizens who are compelled
thus to leave their homes and employments, to attend to public
business at their individual expense, a hardship and oppression which
the government could never willingly inflict. The Grand Inquest
would therefore in this mode respectfully represent this matter to the
government through the delegate from the territory
3. The Grand Inquest would present as a matter of great public
interest to the District, the subject of an internal navigation between
the waters of the Apalachicola River, and the bays of St. Andrews
and Pensacola. This line of inland navigation it is believed, from a
partial examination already made, can be effected at an expence com-
paratively trivial, and would in its completion, ensure to the citizens
of the respective portions of the District, very important advantages;
the Grand Inquest would therefore recommend to their fellow citizens
a continued attention to this object until it be accomplished.
4. The Grand Inquest presents the importance of such a modifica-
tion of the existing laws of the U. S. relative to the adjustment of



790 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
“claims and titles to land” in Florida, as may enable the Board of
Commissioners in West Florida to effect a more speedy decision of the
claims, and thus induce an earlier emigration to Florida; or in failure
of obtaining such modification, to endeavor to effect a chauge of the
said law, so far as to permit the immediate survey and sale of such
public lands in West Florida, as are unembarrassed by claims, and the
subject is recommended to the attention of the Delegate to Congress.
5. The Grand Inquest present the importance of a strict attention
on the part of Justices of the Peace and other Magistrates to that part
of the law enacted at the last session of the Legislative Council of
Florida, respecting justices of the peace, which requires such officers
duly to recognize, in order to their appearance at the court ensuing,
all material witnesses in criminal cases, occurring before them, a duty
hitherto much neglected by them, as, without a strict attention to this
requirement of the said law, the Grand Inquest are unavoidably im-
peded in the transaction of their business.
The Grand Inquest would request that a certified copy of the four
first ensuing of these their public presentments may be forwarded by
the United States Attorney for West Florida, to the Delegate from
this Territory, to whose attention they are recommended, with the
request, that he adopt all proper measures to effect speedily the object
of the first and second of these presentments.
The Grand Inquest further requests that a copy of these their public
presentments, after being placed upon the records of the court, be
ordered to be published in the next number of the public gazette of
West Florida.
Grand Jury Room Nov. 8, 1823.
Signed, EUGENIO LAVALLE, Foreman.
Samuel Patterson, Elijah M'cCurdy,
Clark Jackson, Guillermo M'cVoy,
Wm. H. M'cCurdy, Henry Ahrens,
John Matthews, John Jerrison, jr.
R. Manning, Francisco Moreno,
Jeptha Gilbert, David Rowland,
Richard Eddins, Isaac Jenwright,
Peter Wilkinson, A. P. Simpson,
John S. Moore.
On motion of Wm. F. Steele, Esq. United States' Attorney, that the
public and general presentments of the Grand Inquest for West
Florida, for this term, should be published, in conformity with their
request therein contained—Ordered, That a copy of the said present-
ments be furnished by the Clerk of this Court for publication
accordingly,
A true copy, John Miller, Clk.
By W. HASELL HUNT, D. C.



FLORI D A T E R R IT OR Y 791
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1823, Bk. 6:LS)
United States' Attorney’s Office (W. F.)
PENSACOLA 18th Nov 1823–
SIR. It has appeared to me proper that I should make a communi-
cation to the Navy Department ere now—but a vain hope that that
the evil in question would lessen has heretofore prevented it. During
my residence here for the last eight months not a fortnight has scarcely
elapsed without the departure from this port of Wessels loaded with
Cedar & Live-Oak timber believed by every ehe te be etit by every
one to be cut upon the publick lands, nay in many instances known
to be, but as the most respectable mercantile houses here engage in
such shipments—no one is willing to become Informer—and the actual
Trespassers always avoid coming in person to this Port. I have in
vain addressed the Dep’ Collector of this port officially—to endeavor
to induce him to make the legal requisition in all shipments of Timber
viz “actual proofs that the Timber was not cut upon Publick lands”
but I have not succeeded and continual exportation is made of Timber
of these rare and valuable Kinds which make it a loss to the publick
of no trivial character. As legal proofs upon which the U.S. Attorney
would be authorized to libel the Wessel and Cargo, are Scarcely ever
attainable in the first instance from the adroitness with which the
matter is managed & the Shipments made, the only feasible method
is to have them overhauled by a publick Wessel after clearance who
would be authorized to detain them upon probable cause of suspicion,
which it may be Safely asserted exists in regard to every one of 8 or 10
Vessels which have cleared from this Port with Timber during the last
year and will continue to exist.—An Article upon this Subject which
appeared lately in the Mobile paper and has I observe been copied
into our Gazette here—which as it takes a very correct view (as is
here thought) of the matter, and a view more at large than I am
willing to adopt in this Communication—I have taken leave to
transmit the Gazette alluded to.
Being convinced Sir that my duty to the government required this
Communication on a Subject of importance, I trust that any appar-
ently undue earnestness in this matter into which I may have been
misled will be referred to that cause.”
With the highest respect I have the honor to be Sir Your most
obedient humble Servant
WILLIAM. F. STEELE U.S. Att’ &c.
* See post, p. 794.



792 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
HoNBLE SAM' L. SouTHARD Secºy of the Navy Wash" City
[Endorsed] All the papers in relation to the public timber in Florida
I wish to see precisely what has been done on this subject—M" Boyle”
will make the inquiry.—
WATERS SMITH TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. 18. Novem" 1823
SIR Your letter of the 1" Instant was this day received,” enclosing
receipts, which I have signed, and return to you; I cannot imagine
that any objection can be made by the President or Secretary of State
to the course which you propose; and presume the amount will be
remitted so soon as the receipts are received by you—If convenient,
would thank you to direct the remittance to be made by a check on
the U. S. Branch Bank at Charlston, and so soon as the Individual
claimants are paid; certificates of the payment shall be forwarded to
the Department of State. If the money should not be forwarded,
please return to me the enclosed receipts.”
I am Sir with much respect Your obedº Servº
WATERS SMITH
FoNTAINE MAURY Esq." Agent
|Endorsed] Waters Smith St Augustine 18 Nov 1823
FONTAINE MAURY TO SECRETARY WALTON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 19 Nov. 1823
GEO. WALTON Esquire Pensacola.
SIR I have duly received your Letter of the 12” Ultimo * covering
your account with this Department, and your draft on the Treasury
for $375, which has been paid and I now have the pleasure to enclose
you my check on the Bank of the Metropolis for $134.23 the balance
which appears by settlement at the 5* Auditors Office to be due to
you—I could not obtain a draft on New Orleans as you desired.
The Secretary desires me to express to you his regret at the dis-
allowance of your Charge of Commission on the disbursement of the
$5000. but there being no precedent before him to justify such allow-
ance, he does not feel himself authorized to create one.
I am with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient
Servant -
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
* John Boyle, clerk in the office of the Secretary of the Navy.
* Ante, p. 782.
* Answered post, p. 804.
* Ante, p. 768.



§
LIST OF SUITS IN THE TERRITORIAL DISTRICT COURT (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:JD, Attys. Returns, Bk 2:ADS]
[November 20, 1823]
List of Suits Decided and Pending in the District Court of the United States, for the District of West Florida Instituted by the
District Attorney, and Returnable at November Session, 1823.
When
Instituted.
No.
Against Whom
Instituted.
In What Capacity
Delinquent Acted.
Amount of
Debt.
When
Due.
To
Whom
Paid.
Remarks.
April 1823.
April 1823.
April 1823.
Novemr 1823.
||
Schr. Trial & Cargo
Maturin Simon
Octavius Mitchell
& James Forbes
Tho' Wright
Paymaster &c
Indian Trader
Do Do
Bond Securities of
M. Simon
Paymaster—8 Regt.
U. S. Infº
}
$1,100.
$1.000.
$1.000.
1953 9%00
This was an Admiralty case for
breach of the laws regulating
Indian trade, Restitution ordered
last Term damages refused to
Capt M. Simon at this Term and
libel dismissed on the ground of
want of Jurisdiction.
This was an action on a Bond
given by the Owner of the above
vessel to the Indian Agent for
faithful, observance of the laws
aforesd Demurrer Sustained at
this Term
Same Situation as the above
Suit & demurrer
Sustained at this term.
Verdict at this Term $1249.
which must be made at or before
the next Term.
A correct list of all the Suits decided and pending in this court, in which the U. S. are parties.—PENSACOLA (W. F) 20° Nov"
WILLIAM. F. STEELE U States Attorney &c
1823.−
To/ S. PLEASANTON Esq, Agent of the Treasury U. S.
[Endorsed] West, Florida, Attorney's return of List of Suits &c for Novº Term 1823.



794 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1823: ALS)
St AUGUSTIN 20 Novº 1823
SIR I arrived here on the 18* & shall loose no time in commenc-
ing on the duties of the Commission assigned me—I shall leave this
in 5 or 6 days & hope, should the weather prove favourable, to be
able to complete the survey within the period desired by you—You
have said nothing of compensation to Surveyors Chain carriers &c:
but, with a view to the least possible expence I shall endeavour to
have these duties discharged, by details from the Army: & will allow
to the soldiers so employ'd the extra while on hard labor provided
for by law—As the duty will be severe the compensation will be
just—I would draw your attention to the compensation allowed L'
Ripley: with a hope that on reconsideration you will allow an addi-
tional per diem amount—As his exposure & duties performed will be
equal to what I shall encounter, his compensation should be equiva-
lent—
Presuming that the detail for the Garrison at Tampa Bay will be
made from the 4* Reg" of Infantry I have this day addressed the
Com” Officer, at Pensacola, suggesting the propriety of his dispatch-
ing the Troops immediately so that we may meet at the Point desig-
nated—Should the detachment arrive at the Bay of Tampa as soon
as myself it will greatly facilitate our operation.*
Your ob St
JAMES GADSDEN
THE HON” J C CALHOUN Seº War
[Endorsed] Gadsden. J. Sº Augustin 20 Nov 1823 relative to run-
ning the boundary line under the Florida treaty.
JOHN STEVENS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
[NA:TD, Lets. to and from Collectors: C)
Custom House Collector's Office SAVANNAH 25 November 1823
SIR, Captain Pearce arrived at this Port about the 21st Instant in
a Small craft from St Johns River, called the only daughter, laden
with Live Oak. Information was lodged at my office in support of
the following charge viz. That the Lumber on board was cut off the
the public Lands in East Florida for the use of the Captain and was
taken away by him in a clandestine manner. As the information
came direct from one who was on the river St Johns in August last
* Answered Dec. 9, 1823, NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. 7), printed, A. S. P.,
Ind. Affairs, II, 442, to the effect that a detail of soldiers would be authorized to
assist in the Indian boundary survey and that they would be allowed reasonable
compensation. See post, p. 795.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 795
and was an eye witness to the Cutting. I have caused the lumber
to be seized and shall hold possession until the pleasure of the De-
partment can be known. The quantity of Lumber is trifling and
scarcely worthy of notice, but the consequences are important.”
This and other small vessels if left alone will be employed as carriers
in a small way by those who have been, and still are trespassing on
the public domain. My information states that in August last the
value of lumber then cut down in the neighbourhood of the Cow ford
or black Creek would not be less than fifteen thousand Dollars—that
a number of persons were then Cutting, but that, one Fairbanks was
the Principal The Law for protecting the Timber of the United States
in Florida is vague and feeble, I would most willingly have seized upon
the vessel if my powers had been sufficient. But the District At-
torney was] of opinion that I could only proceed against the cargo.
You will be pleased to instruct me what is to be done with the present
seizure how the informant is to be compensated and what must be
my practice in analogous cases.”
I am respectfully. Sir Your Obt Servant
JNO STEVENS Collector
TO THE HONB' W. H. CRAWFORD Sectetary of the Treasury
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1823:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE 26 Novº 1823
SIR Since my last letter to you " I have had a conversation with
some two or three of the principal chiefs from the South—They
seemed much disconcerted at my being ordered to run & mark the
Indian boundary line; refused to furnish me any facilities on my
march; & even went so far as to request me to postpone my operations,
connecting the request with some very ambiguous remarks—I refused
most positively to defer the execution of my commission & have di-
rected them to inform their Head Chief that I should be at his Cabin
in the nation in a few days prepared to run the line & expect to be
accompanied by one of his Warriors selected for the purpose—
Though I am far from believing the Indians would attempt to resist
the execution of the orders from the President; yet it is certainly
prudent to be prepared for all contingencies—I therefore conceive
it my duty to urge the necessity of the speedy movement of the
Troops detailed for the occupation of the Bay of Tampa-A military
as Stevens wrote on Jan. 21, 1824, that in this case the lumber had been cut
from private lands and purchased by the captain and that he had released the
cargo (NA, TD, Lets. to and from Collectors).
* See post, p. 809.
*7 Nov. 20, 1823, ante, p. 794.



796 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P.A. P. E. R. S.
force at that point would not only be prepared to act with effect if
necessary; but would in my opinion prevent any disturbance, if there
are any restless spirits so disposed, by ensuring to the Commissioners
respect, and every facility from the Indians towards the accomplish-
ment of the duties to be performed—
I take the liberty of further suggesting to you the propriety of
requesting the Secretary of the Navy to direct the smaller armed
Wessels of the West India Squadron occasionally to extend their
cruises to the Western coast of Florida, as far North as the Bay of
Tampa-The presence at times of Wessels of War in that Bay &
Charlottes Harbor, which are frequented by the Indians, could not
but operate most favourably towards the accomplishment of the
objects the Government have in view; & would present great facilities
to the discharge of the duties devolving on me as Commissioner *
Your ob S JAMES GADSDEN
I hope upon reconsideration of the extra allowed L' Ripley; you will
be induced to increase it so as to render it rather more proportional
to the arduous service to be performed—
[Addressed] The Honb' J C Calhoun Secº War
[Endorsed] Gadsden, J. Sº Augustine, 26 Novº, 1823 relative to
the movement of troops to Tampa Bay & of vessels of war visiting it
occasionally.
** Answered post, p. 817.



§

ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 47,415:DS]
No 1—
[November, 1823]
Abstract of Compensations to Grand and Petit Jurors, for their attendance at a Superior Court held at St Augustine East Florida
for the District of East Florida, and for their travel to and from the said Court, for November Term 1823–
-
For Attendance For Travel Original signatures of
Total Jurors for Amount
Amount Received from Waters
Amount Amount Smith Marshal for
Names Places of Abode ||Num- Num- East Florida the sums
ber ber affixed to our respec-
of of tive names—St Au-
Days | Doll" || Cts miles | Doll" || Cts Doll" Cents gustine 29th Novem-
ber 1823–
GRAND JURORS
Peter Mitchel Foreman St Augustine 6 7 || 50 7 || 50 Peter Mitchel–
Gabriel W. Perpall Sº Augustine 6 7 || 50 7 50 G. W. Perpall
Elias Wallen St Augustine 6 7 50 7 50 Elias Wallen
Antonio Alvarez St Augustine 6 7 50 7 50 Antonio Alvarez
John Du Bose St Augustine 6 7 50 7 50 Jn Du'Bose
Samuel Fairbank St Johns River 6 7 50 76 3 || 80 11 || 30 Sam Fairbank
James T. Mattair Sn Diego 6 7 50 56 2 80 10 || 30 James T. Mattair
Lewis Mattair head of Northriver 6 7 50 60 3 10 || 50 Luis Mattair
Horatio S. Dexter Volusia 6 7 || 50 150 7 50 15 Horatio S Dexter
Samuel Y. Geary Moultrie 6 7 50 14 70 8 20 Sam Y Garey
John Warren St Johns River 6 7 50 80 4 11 50 John Warren
Francis Richard St Johns River 6 7 50 80 4 11 || 50 F; Richard
Daniel Hurlbert St Augustine 6 7 50 7 50 Daniel Hurlbert
Roman Sanchez Black Creek 6 7 || 50 80 4 11 || 50 Francis R Sanchez



§
ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA
For Attendance For Travel Original signatures of
Total Jurors for Amount
Amount Received from Waters
Amount Amount Smith Marshal for
Names Places of Abode Num- Num- East Florida the sums
ber ber affixed to our respec-
of of tive names—St Au-
Days Doll" || Cts | miles | Doll" || Cts Doll" || Cts gustine 29th Novem-
ber 1823–
GRAND JURORS–Continued
Erbena Follis Julington 6 7 || 50 56 2 80 10 || 30 Arbena Follis
Antonio Trei St Augustine 6 7 || 50 7 50 Antonio Jose Triay
Joseph S. Sanchez St Augustine 5 6 25 6 || 25 Joseph S. Sanchez
101 $126 25 652 $32 60 $158 || 85
PETIT JURORS
James Plummer St Johns River 6 7 50 64 3 20 10 || 70 James Plummer
George Petty St Johns River 6 7 50 62 3 || 10 10 || 60 George Petty
John Andrews Shell bank North 6 7 || 50 18 90 8 || 40 Juan Andreu
river
John Mestre Head of North 9 11 || 25 40 2 13 || 25 Juan Mestre
river
Pablo F. Fontane St Augustine 9 11 || 25 11 || 25 Pabo F Fontane
John M. Fontane Ditto 12 15 15 John M. Fontané
John Y. Geary Ditto 14 17 || 50 17 | 50 John Y. Garey
Gamaliel Darling Ditto 14. 17 | 50 17 | 50 Gamaliel Darling
Lewis Hugan Ditto 10 12 50 12 50 Lewis Huguon
Joseph Pappy Ditto 4 5 5 Jose Papy



§
75
John Ker
R. D. Fontane
William Levingston
Pierce Rowe
Robert Pierson
Lewis Guibert
Nicholas Morgan
John Suder
Edward R. Gibson
William T. Hall
Peter Porrier
Robert D. Jourolman
Joseph Pepoon
Emanuel Ormond
Bernardo Segui
Moses E. Levy
Charles Robion
William R. Taber
Nehemiah Tilton
Peter Bennett
Bernandino Sanchez
James R. Hanham
Joe Sima Sanchez
Andrew Pacetty
Bernard Meynardie
Anthelm Gay
John Addison
Thomas Addison
Antonio A. Rutan
Hugh Rowley
Francis P. Sanchez
Andrew Storrs
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Picolata
St Augustine
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Tomoko
St Augustine
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Tomoka
Tomoka
St Augustine
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
50
25
75
75
75
00
25
25
25
25
75
36
100
110
110
80
50
50
75
50
25
75
55
75
25
25
25
25
75
John Ker
R D Fontane
Wm. Levingston
Pierce Rowe
Robert Pearson
L Guibert
Nicholas Morgan
John Suder
Edward R. Gibson
W. T. Hall
P Poirier
R D Jourolman
Joseph Pepoon
Emanuel W Ormond
Bernardo Segui
M E Levy
Chas Robion
Wm R. Taber
N Tilton
Pedro Benet
Bernaro S Sanchez
J. R. Hanham
Joseph S. Sanchez
Andres Pacety
Meynardie de Nadalie
A. Gay
John Addison
Thomas Addison
A. Rutan
Hugh Rowley
Franco P. Sanches
A. Storrs



3.

ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA
For Attendance For Travel Original signatures of
Total Jurors for Amount
Amount Received from Waters
Amount Amount Smith Marshal for
Names Places of Abode || Num- Num- East Florida the sums
ber ber affixed to our respec-
of of tive names—St Au-
Days Doll" || Cents miles Dolls | Cents Dolls Cents gustine 29th Novem-
ber 1823–
PETIT JURORS–Continued
Joseph Hymenus Ditto 1 1 || 25 1 || 25 Jose Ximenez
Seymour Pickett Six mile Creek 1 1 || 25 92 4 || 60 5 || 85 Seymour Pickitt
Antonio Alvarez St Augustine 1 1 25 1 || 25 Antonio Alvarez
EdeVan Evour Ditto 1 1 || 25 1 || 25 Ede Van Evour
John Gonzalez Junº Ditto 3 3 || 75 3 || 75 Juan F. Gonzalez
William Travers Ditto 1 1 || 25 1 || 25 William Travers
Francis de Medecis Ditto 3 3 || 75 3 || 75 Franco de Medicis
Joseph Hernandez Ditto 3 1 || 25 1 || 25 Jose Hernandez
Charles W. Clarke Ditto 1 1 || 25 1 || 25 Charles W. Clarke
Francis Marine Ditto 2 2 50 2 50 Franco Maren
291 363 75 632 31 || 60 395 || 35 for Petit Jurors
Amount brought forward 101 126 25 652 32 || 60 158 || 85 for Grand Jurors
392 490 00 1284 64 20 554 20
Deduct Paid to Jurors exceeding 6 days 120
l $434 20



§
i
§
District of East Florida November Term 1823 ss: Stated by WATER SMITH Marshal
I do hereby certify, that the Jurors named in the foregoing abstract were duly summoned, and for their attendance and mileage,
at this Term, are legally entitled to the compensation affixed to their names respectively.
JAMES S TINGLE Clk Sup Court
Examined and allowed
Joseph L. SMITH Judge Sup C* E. Florida
[Endorsed] No 1 Compensation to Jurors November Term 1823 Doll' 554 20/100



802 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1823:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE 1 Dec 1823
SIR I leave Sº Augustine this day for the Sº Johns river and Will
without delay execute the Commissions assigned me *—
I must again request that the movement of the Troops detailed for
the Post at the Bay of Tampa may be effected as soon as practicable—
If I do not meet with the detachment south I apprehend much embar-
rassment; independent of suffering, in the execution of the duties
undertaken "-
I would likewise again suggest to you the propriety of requesting the
Secº of the Navy to direct some of the smaller armed vessels on the
W I Station to enter occasionally the Bay of Tampa & Charlotts
Harbor—Though the Indians believe that the Americans are numerous
& all powerful on the land, they are not yet convinced of our strength
on the ocean—They still retain some of their friendly feelings towards
the British & some of the more restless still believe that in the event
of any disturbance with the Americans, that aid & succor will be
delived from that sourse—Could the American Wessels of War be more
freequently seen on the Western Coast of this Territory, it would most
effectually dissipate all hopes on that score & the more readily ensure
the control over the Savage so much desired—I confess I feel much
interest on this subject; having undertaken to act on the late Treaty;
I am more than anxious to witness the complete consummation of its
objects—Apprehensions of Indian hostilities are not altogether re-
moved from the minds of the Population of this Territory. They have
suffered so severely & so frequently that it is almost impossible to
convince them of their present security—The Indians penetrating
their timidity of character continue to threaten & have excited alarms
of late which it would be gratifying to me to see most effectually
removed—They cannot be so, but by the measures proposed; & with
a hope that concurring in opinion with me you will speedily act I
conclude * Yours &
JAMES GADSDEN
[Addressed] The Honb' J. C. Calhoun Secº War Washington [Post-
marked] St. Augustine Dec 2 free
* Gadsden informed the Secretary of War, Nov. 29, 1823 (NA, OIA, SW Lets.
Recd.), that he was about to leave for the south pursuant to fresh instructions to
expedite the execution of the treaty.
* See Gadsden to Brooke, Dec. 1, 1823, requesting that they meet at Tampa
Bay early in the following month, with facilities for running the Indian boundary
line (enclosure in Brooke to Gen. Jacob Brown, Feb. 3, 1824, NA, WD, AGO
Lets. Reca., printed, Fla. Hist. Quart., xxxi (Apr. 1953), 275–276).
* See post, p. 817.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 803
[Endorsed] Gadsden, J. S." Augustine, 1 Decº, 1823 relative to the
movement of troops to Tampa Bay & of vessels of war visiting it
occasionally.
PETER ALBA AND NICHOLAS S. PARMANTIER TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:LS “]
PENSACOLA December 4* 1823–
SIR In a somewhat isolated situation, remote from the seat of the
general government of the United States, the people of Florida have
been subjected to innumerable evils arising from the want of the
requisite information in the government of the means of removing or
remedying them.—
Of these evils the most deleterious to us has been the appointment
of persons to the Legislative Council, having, with but one or two
exceptions, no interest in the Territory;-alike strangers to the lan-
guage of a great part of this population, to its wants and its resources,
having no community of feeling with the inhabitants and in short
destitute of the most essential qualifications for the exercise of the
sacred trust reposed in them.—
In this situation of things, the people of this Section of the Ter-
ritory deeply impressed with a sense of the inestimable advantages of
choosing their own lawmakers in a republican government, resolved
to have a public meeting to recomend to the President of the United
States, fit persons to be appointed to the next council. And the fol-
lowing individuals were accordingly proposed and recomended by
a large majority—
JOHN LEE WILLIAMS JUAN DE LA RUA
JOHN INNERARITY JOSEF NORRIEGA
JOSEPH M WHITE BENJAMIN T WRIGHT Esqrs.—
For the purpose of affording a still farther and more ample opportunity
of eliciting the whole sense of the county; a poll was directed to be
held and notices were put up and published.—Which poll took place
yesterday, and resulted in the following aggregate of votes—
JOHN LEE WILLIAMS 154— BENJ" TWRIGHT 137–
JOHN INNERARITY 151— TIMOTHY TWITCHEL 45—
JOSEPH M WHITE 150— WILLIAM BARNET- 20–
JUAN DE LA RUA 147— SAMUEL FRY- 7—
JOSEF NORRIEGA.— 143–
The last mentioned three persons were formerly put up as candidates
as you will see by the inclosed printed notice taken from a newspaper
called the Floridian.-
** Filed under “Gadsden, James.”



804 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P.A. P. E. R. S.
Colonel White was supported under an expectation that the next
session of the Council might be postponed until the Autumn; when his
present commission will have expired,—and as a testimonial of the
high opinion this community entertain of his integrity and services
since his residence here.—
The result of the votes would render any comments a work of
Supererogation.—
In point of numerical superiority, this County is entitled to four
members to be selected out of the six highest recommended; and we
should deem it a great misfortune to the Territory to have any others
appointed.
We have only farther to beg leave to wait on you with the reso-
lutions adopted at the first meeting and the notices to which we have
referred as printed in, and taken from the Floridian—also a minute
of the proceedings of the second meeting and a minute of the result
of the poll.”—All which we beg to request that you will be pleased to
submit to the President of the United States—We have enly the honor
to remain with sentiments of the most profound respect Your Obedi-
ent & very humble Servants—
N S PARMANTIER Sect” P. ALBA." chairman
THE HON* JoHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secy of State of the United
States—
[Endorsed] Abba P. & others. Pensacola 1 Dec. 1823 Rec" 24
Florida affairs. List of persons recommended, as Members of the
Legislative Council.
FONTAINE MAURY TO WATERS SMITH
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 6 Dec 1823
WATERs SMITH Esquire Mayor of Sº Augustine.
SIR I have received your two receipts for $2631.61 the amount of
the claim of the Corporation of Sº Augustine upon this Department,”
and I now have the pleasure to enclose you a draft from the Treasury
on the Branch of the US Bank at Charleston for that Sum—When the
object of this Remittance is accomplished, you will be pleased to
furnish the Vouchers necessary to a final close of your agency.”
I am with great Respect, Sir, your very humble and Obedient
Servant.
FONTAINE MAURY Ag"
43 Present.
* Peter Alba was mayor of the city of Pensaeola.
* Ante, p. 792.
* Answered post, p. 818.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 805
FONTAINE MAURY TO SAMUEL COOK
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 7 Dec 1823
SAMUEL COOK Esquire S*Augustine.
SIR. Your Letter of the [blank] Ultimo has been duly received 47 in
answer to which I have to inform you that the several accounts to
which it refers have been sent to the Treasury and War Departments,
where every Florida Claim Whatever (excepting those for publishing
the Laws of the United States, and of the Legislative Council of that
Territory) has been payable since the close of the first Session of the
17 Congress—These accounts were for a short time paid at this De-
partment in consequence of no appropriation having been made by
the preceding Congress—I am with great Respect, Sir, your very hum-
ble and obedient Servant.
FONTAINE MAURY Agt
COMMISSION OF DAVIS FLOYD AND WILLIAM W. BLAIR
AS LAND COMMISSIONERS IN EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[December 9, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of an Act of Congress passed on the
third day of Marich 1823, entitled “An Act amending and supple-
mentary to the ‘Act for ascertaining claims and titles to land in the
territory of Florida,' and to provide for the survey and disposal of the
public lands in Florida,” and reposing special Trust and Confidence
in the Integrity, Ability and Diligence of DAVIS FLOYD, and WILLIAM
W. BLAIR, I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent
of the Senate, do appoint them and each of them Commissioners for
the purposes expressed in the said Act, with all the powers, privileges
and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining.”
* Not found.
48 3 STAT. T54–756.
* Floyd, Blair, and Hamilton, to whom a temporary commission had been
issued on Apr. 3, 1823 (ante, p. 656), were nominated for regular appointments
on Dec. 5, 1823; Floyd and Blair were confirmed on Dec. 9 and Hamilton on the
17th (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 343, 344, 349). No permanent commission for
Hamilton has been found. It may not have been recorded because he resigned
before the Department of State transmitted the commission; see post, p. 824.
Floyd's commission was transmitted on July 30, 1824 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets. xx),
and acknowledged by him on Aug. 24 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.). Blair's permanent
commission seems never to have been transmitted, presumably because he was
appointed a judge on May 27, 1824, being replaced as land commissioner by
George Murray on that date (post, pp. 953, 958.)



806 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington the
Ninth day of December A. D. 1823; and of the Independence of the
United States, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF EDGAR MACON AS UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY (EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[December 9, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity Ability and Learning of EDGAR MACON of Virginia, I have
nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the Senate,”
do appoint him Attorney of the United States for that part of the
Territory of Florida, known as East Florida as well as Attorney for
the same part of said Territory; and do authorize and empower him
to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to law; and to
Have and to Hold the same together with all the powers, privileges
and emoluments thereto of right appertaining unto him the said
Edgar Macon, for the term of four years from the day of the date
hereof; unless the President of the United States for the time being
should be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
this Ninth day of December A.D. 1823; and of the Independence of
the United States, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
* Nominated Dec. 5, 1823, and confirmed Dec. 9 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III,
343, 344). This appointment was to the vacancy caused by the resignation of
Alexander Hamilton, which had been filled temporarily by George Murray,
appointed by Judge Smith. In NA (SD, Applications) are recommendations for
this position. Gov. DuVal on May 13, 1823, and James Gadsden on May 29
recommended Murray to the Secretary of State. Judge Smith on May 6 recom-
mended Belton A. Copp, a practicing attorney in the Territory, to the President.
The position was also solicited by Isaac N. Cox, of Philadelphia, in a letter of
Apr. 25 to the Secretary of State.
* This commission was transmitted to Macon on May 19, 1824 (NA, SD,
Dom. Lets., XX), and was acknowledged by him June 29 (NA, SD, Acceptances).



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 807
JOHN T. JOHNSON TO JOSEPH ANDERSON
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
WASHINGTON Decº 11th 1823.
SIR, I have recº letters from Jn" H. Hanna Clerk of the Federal
Court at Frankfort Ky; W* Sebree Marshall of W. Florida; & Jos M.
White Esq. of W. Florida, requesting me to see you in relation to
their accounts sent on some time since. Mr Hanna's claim in fee
bills to am" of about $550,-He wishes a draft on the Treasury or the
Marshall of Ky—W* Sebree is now in Ky Boone County & would
likely receive an enclosure there, if sent on soon—It would afford
great satisfaction if you could send on the amount. He has given
ample security and I am confident there would result no difficulty—M"
White acted as District Attorney & is now in W. Florida—I should
be glad to hear from these cases as soon as you have decided upon
them—As to anything that may be necessary on my part in relation
to this business, you can command me *—
With great resp" Y. Obt Sert
J. T. JOHNSON
Jos. ANDERSON Esq 1* Comptroller of the Treasury.
[Addressed] Jos. Anderson Esq 1* Compt' of the Treasury Wash-
ington
THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
Adjº Gen' Office WASHINGTON 11 Decem" 1823.
HIS EXC' W. P. DUVAL Gov. of Florida St Augustine
SIR, I am directed by the Secretary of War to acknowledge the
receipt of your communication to him of the 18 Ult” and to state
that it is believed the establishment of the Military post at Tampa
Bay will afford a greater protection to the Citizens of Florida than
the continuance of the post at St Marks which was found very un-
healthy, & the supplies for which were forwarded with great incon-
venience.—
The Secretary directs me to add however that if your objections
to the removal of the troops from St Marks had been known to the
War Department at an earlier date, the order directing the abandon-
ment of the post would have been delayed.—
I have the honour to be &"
(sig") CH• J. Nourse Act” Adjº Gen.'
* No acknowledgment found.
* Ante, p. 787.



808 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO SIMON BERNARD AND
JAMES G. TOTTEN
[NA:WD, CE, Lets. to Officers of Engineers, Bk. 1)
Engineer Department WASHINGTON Dec 12. 1823.
BRIG GEN BERNARD & Lº Col. ToTTEN Board of Eng” New York.
GENTLEMEN The Secretary of War is desirous that the Board
take up the consideration of the defence of Pensacola and project the
plans necessary to that object. Gen' Call, has made a motion in the
house of Representatives that the Military Committee be instructed
to enquire into the expediency of fortifying Pensacola.” Should the
report of the Committee favor the motion, it is desireable that the
plans and estimates be completed before the rising of Congress.”
I have the honor &".
Signed ALEX MACOMB M G Ch Eng
COMMISSION OF JOSEPH M. WHITE AS LAND
COMMISSIONER (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms., E]
[December 15, 1823]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of An Act of Congress passed the
eighth day of May A. D. 1822, entitled “An Act for ascertaining claims
and titles to land within the Territory of Florida,” “ and reposing
special Trust and Confidence in the Integrity Ability and Diligence
of JoSEPH M. WHITE of Florida, I have nominated and by and with
the advice and Consent of the Senate,” do appoint him one of the
Commissioners for the purposes expressed in the said Act, with all
the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining.”
* House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 45.
* The reply from Totten, Dec. 17, stated that Kearney had been taken off the
work of preparing maps of his surveys of Pensacola and Mobile Bays in order to
survey the St. Marys River in Maryland (NA, WD, CE Lets. Recd., 1506).
* 3 STAT. 709–718.
* Nominated, Dec. 5, 1823, and confirmed, Dec. 15 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III,
343, 349). See ante, p. 711.
* This commission was transmitted to White on June 16, 1824 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets. xx), and acknowledged July 15 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets).



F L OR I. D A T E R R. I TOR Y 809
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the fifteenth day of December A. D. 1823; and of the Independence of
the United States, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1823, Bk. 7:LS)
United States Attorney's Office
DISTRICT OF WEST FLORIDA 19th Decem" 1823
SIR, I had the honor to address you some few weeks since on the
Subject of the destruction of Public Timber in this District & the
consequent injury of Naval interests thus effected.” A Sitting of the
U. S. District & Circuit Courts for West Florida has since been
had in this District and the utmost exertion was made on the part of
the U.S. to effect the conviction of three individuals who were charged
with the “cutting & selling for transportation &c.”—Several cargoes
of Publick timber, red Cedar & live Oak, & who I have no doubt were
justly charged—These persons were readily acquitted, owing to their
precautionary measures & to the entire indifference in the Publick
mind here on the Subject of this depredation. Like acquittals must
be the result " of like offences & trials here, until the Government
shall adopt some more vigilant preventive measures under the Acts
in relation to this Species of Publick property. While I have the
honor to hold the office of U. S. Attorney no effort shall be wanting
on the part of that officer to prevent or furnish offences of the kind
in question—but there is little hope of Success (important as is the
matter) under present circumstances.
Applications are frequently made to be by actual Settlers upon the
publick lands—upon which there are heavy growths of fine ship timber,
viz. of the Live-oak, red cedar, locust & Cypress. and who wish to
Settle those lands, to clear and improve them,-in doing which the
Trees are either girdled & left to decay or cut down and removed.—
They ask of me information, whether the Government, would consent
to purchase this Timber or enter into contracts to receive at Pensacola
good Ship Timber necessarily destroyed or cut for the above reasons.
Not being advised as to the course pursued hitherto by the Govern-
ment, or the Naval Department in this matter, I have been unable
to answer the proposed qweries. Should the power to make purchases
* Ante, p. 791.
* This word is written over the word “subject”.



810 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
of Timber under such circumstances be vested in the Naval depart-
ment, & its exercise be deemed not to be impolitick I will venture to
Suggest that if the location of a Naval Agent at this port be deter-
mined, his being vested with Such power, would conduce greatly to
the preservation of the Publick Timber, not only by preventing its
demolition but by Securing to the Government for the use of the
Navy (at a cheap rate) large quantities of the most valuable Publick
Timber, now entirely lost to it, and what is indeed worse, often
exported to British ports.
It is hoped by the Attorney that in these Suggestions he may not
be thought to have overstepped the modesty of his duty—but if So,
he trusts his mistake will be ascribed to an honest official zeal rather
than to any intentional persecution.”
I have the honor to be Sir Very respectfully Your obedient servant
WILLIAM F STEELE Attorney of the U.S. &c. &c
HON. SAMUEL L. SOUTHARD Secºy of the Navy &c. &c
[Endorsed) U. S. Atty." Office, West Florida 19” December 1823
Wm: F. Steele Relative to Timber &"
HENRY DE GRAND-PRE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: Tr.”)
Pensacola 20 December 1823–
(Translation)
SIR/ At the time of its delivery to the American Governm" I had
the honour of being the Constitutional Alcade of this Province, when
I determined to withdraw from my Regiment in the Spanish Service,
and live under the free institutions of the United States, resolving to
submit to their laws, and hoping for their privileges. Such were my
flattering anticipations and intentions but the unmerited persecution
to which I have been subjected by the malevolence of the District
Attorney M'. W* F. Steele has induced me to make an exposé of the
circumstances to the Governm" of the U. States, and should they
tolerate such proceedings and outrages the ancient inhabitants must
seek security by an abandonment of their homes, and a refuge under
their old Government.
Sometime last Spring a rencounter took place between a Spanish
Cadet, and an American Shopkeeper, in which I interposed and parted
the Combatants. They were taken up, and I among the rest, and
brought before a Justice of the Peace as rioters, and upon a full
examination before (MS. torn] Justices I was discharged. Mº Steele ar-
rived a few days afterwards, had another warrant taken out, and brought
me before the Mayor and another Justice, and upon examination I was
* See post, p. 931.
* The original letter, in Spanish, is present.



F I, OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 811
again discharged. At the next term of the Superior Court he moved
to have a Bench Warrant issued against me, which was refused. At
the term of the Court he sent up six Indictments successively against
me which were all returned, “Not found.” Insatiaſ.ble] in his persecu-
tion he endeavoured again to have me bound over to answer at the next
term of the Court which the Hon” Judge refused, and at the late
term of the Superior Court he had me again arrested, and sent before
another Grand Jury four indictments for riot, assault, affray, trespass,
&ca in a matter in which I only interposed as a peace-maker—The
Grand Jury however, at the first term indignantly returned some of
those bills saying “they had acted on the same subject,” and that this
repetition was not calculated “to promote public Justice but to
engender animosities in the community;” and the four last indict-
ments were again returned—“Not found.” The two young gentle-
men who were engaged in the fight have had as many as eighteen
indictments sent up against them, and have been induced to believe
that the Inquisition is a merciful Tribunal compared with an American
Court in which such a man as W* F. Steele officiates as Minister.
I inclose a certificate of the clerk of the Court in support of these
facts, and a Copy of the presentments against the Attorney himself
at the last Court for drunkenness and other immoralities. I am aware,
Sir, that it is not the Govern", but its unworthy representative to
whom blame can be imputed but such outrages have already driven
many, and will soon drive many more from the Country unless he is
removed. I have, therefore, humbly to request that you will be
pleased to lay this letter with the accompanying documents before
His Excellency the President of the United States, and receive the
homage of respect with which I have the honour to subscribe myself—
Your Excellency's Obedient & humble Serv"
traducion HENRY DE GRAND-PRE
THE HONOURABLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State &c, &c.
[Addressed] The Honorable John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington City [Postmarked] Pensacola, Dec 26 Free
[Endorsed] H. DeGrand–Pensacola 20 Dec 1823 Recd 15 Jany '24
Charges against the District Attorney.
[Enclosure: E]
Presentments of the Grand Jury Against William F. Steele
[December 23, 1823]
Extract from the presentments made by the Grand Jury, empan-
nelled and sworn, for the District of West Florida, at the November
Term of the United States District and Superior Court for the District
aforesaid.—



812 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
“The Grand Inquest for the District of West Florida upon their
oaths do present Wm. F. Steele for riotous and tumultuous conduct
on the night of the Twenty fifth day of October 1823 thereby disturb-
ing the peace of the inhabitants of the said District.” They also
further present W* F. Steele U. S. Attorney for setting at defiance the
laws of the City of Pensacola & this Territory in threatening to make
as much noise and disturbance with Trumpets or in any manner
which he might think proper at the same threatening to shoot any
officer or other person attempting to interrupt him in said noises and
disturbances.—Witnesses W* H. Hunt, Jerº Ingraham, & Benj
Wyman.”—
Territory of Florida District of West Florida Clerk's office, Superior
Court.
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the above
extract is correct. Given under my hand and the seal of said Court
this 23° December A. D. 1823.
Copy Test JNo MILLER Clk Sup' Court W Florida
[Endorsed] with H. DeGrand's Letter of 20 Decr. 1823 Recd 15
Jany 1824.
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess.:DS “J
TERRITORY OF FLORIDAY [December 20, 1823]
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States in Congress assembled—
The Memorial of the under signed Citizens of that portion of the
Territory called East Florida—Respectfully sheweth—
That your Memorialists composed of the Inhabitants of Amelia
Island and the adjacent Country beg leave to represent to your
Honourable Body the advantages that will arrise to the Territory and
to all others concerned if their petition be granted—We pray that
your Honourable Body will pass such regulations respecting the
wrecking vessels that receive their cargoes on the coast of Florida,
as may be most benificial to all concerned the underwriter, the owners
& wreckers—We therefore pray you will take into consideration the
following statement—The wrecking business has been carried on for
many years by British subjects, under proper regulations and restric-
tions; which are absolutely necessary to secure a correct division of
the property saved—The enterprising American Citizens will now par-
take of that lucrative business, and no doubt a large amount of prop-
erty will be saved to the owners and underwriters; if judicious laws
be instituted, to put on an equal footing the wrecker, owner and under-
* Groups of the signers are in the same hand.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 813
writer, that the property so saved, may be divided agreeable to the
Laws of our country; which can not conveniently be done without
all the wrecked property saved should be brought into some particular
ports and there sold for the benefit of all concerned. We therefore
beg leave to suggest the propriety of having some convenient and
Safe Port in Florida, where all vessels that have wrecked goods on
board shall deliver their cargoes; the owners, underwriters & wreckers
can have their agents to attend to their interist; it will secure to the
United States a considerable revenue, and to the underwriters their
proportion of the property saved—at present if a vessel is wrecked
and the Cargo is saved by different wrecking Wessels each vessel takes
in a cargo and proceeds to a port most convenient for the master, and
every vessel might go to a different port, how then is the Captain who
is a general agent for the underwriters able to attend to their interist;
and perhaps it is not known to Him to what port the wrecking vessels
are bound—If some particular ports is disignated in which all wreck
goods shall be deposited, the Captain can then remain, at the wreck
until the last of His Cargo is shipped, and sure to find the property
in the hands of the agent for the underwriters—We therefore pray
that your honourable body will disignate the Port of Fernandina
(Amelia Island) as the Port of deposit for all wrecked goods that may
be saved to the East of Cape Florida; and all vessels going on a wreck-
ing voyage shall give bonds before they depart, to deliver all the wreck
goods they may find on the coast of Florida in the said Port of Fer-
nandina, and there to be sold agreeable to Law—The advantage that
would arrise to this Territory and the United States will be greater;
at present many of the wrecking vessels carry their wreck goods to
Nassaw New Providence, by which the United States are deprived of
the benefit that should arise from the wrecked property saved.—
Your Memorialists submit with great respect to the consideration
of your Honourable body the facts here in stated.
FERNANDINA Amelia Island Decbº 20° 1823–
Rob" Harrison Horatio Lowe
Eph" Harrison Fernandez Lowe
John Harrison James Olkman
Sam" Harrison Sen’ James Dell
Domingo Fernandez William Walker
Jn" T. Lowe Nicholas Segui
G. Reynolds Fran” L Pons
F D M*Donell Domingo Acosta
Isac Wingat John Acosta
Thomas Moae Antonio Dias
Jeramih Wingat Miguel Mabrity
John Wingat Andres Lopez
Joel Wingat Joseph Bergallo



814 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
John Llanza Sam' Woods
John Middleton Francis Woods
Cha" Seton Nath" Barker
John Reyes B M Dell
John Brown Simeon Dell
Francis Triay Enoch Daniel Sen
Francis G. Triay Wm Daniel
Bernardo Sintas Ab" Daniel
Peter Triay Wiley Daniel
Francis Barbe Enoch Daniel Jun
Martin Arnau James G. Smith
Domingo Luna Ab" Smith
John Secopoly (Cercopoly] E Taylor
Jose Landerol (Carderöl] Coachworth Smith
Felix Rentey C Love
Jose Lopez L Williams
William M*Donell Thom" Lowe
James Pelot Fernandez Lowe
Innocencio Cardona Wm. Woods
Eph" Harrison Jesse Reaves
John Harrison Tho" Lowe
J. Middleton Junior
John D. Braddock
Farq' Bethune
Sam" Harrison Sen"
Thomas Backhouse
Benjamin Woods
their has not been time to procure more—
[Endorsed) East Florida Memorial of the Inhabitants of East
Florida Praying for the passage of a law to exclude foreign Wreckers
from the Coast of Florida, and to designate some particular Port to
which wrecked property shall be carried Foreign Wreckers Jan’
19–1824 Ref to Com” on Commerce Call 77 Commerce “
* House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 154. A resolution of the House of
Representatives directing an enquiry into this subject had been referred to the
Committee on Commerce on Dec. 18, 1823 (ibid., p. 73). For the passage of a
bill, which was reported on Mar. 25, 1824, and noted as approved by the President
on May 26, see House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 337, 573, 576, 587, 596, 598,
602; Senate Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 471, 475, 488, 493, 494, 496. Actually,
however, this particular bill, which had been submitted with many others for the
approval of the President at the close of the session, was inadvertently not signed
by him, and he so informed the House on Feb. 26, 1825 (House Journal, 18 Cong.,
2 sess., p. 276). The bill finally became law on Mar. 3, 1825 (4 STAT. 132–133).
This act required property taken from vessels wrecked on the coast of Florida to
be carried into a port of entry of the United States and made subject to seizure
vessels carrying such property to foreign ports or places. A memorial on the
subject of wrecking addressed to the President by the Legislative Council in 1823
is printed in Fla., Acts, 1823, pp. 145–147. In reporting the bill for reenactment
on Feb. 28, 1825, the House Committee on the Judiciary was of the opinion that
it had no validity until signed by the President, but Del. Call stated that it had



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 815
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess. :DS ºl
TERRITORY OF FLORIDA (December 20, 1823]
To the Honourable the Senate and House of representatives of the
United States in Congress Assembled—
The Memorial of the undersigned Citizens of that portion of the
Territory called East Florida—Respectfully sheweth—
That your Memorialists Composed of the Inhabitants of Amelia
Island and the adjacent Country, beg leave to represent to your
Honourable body the grievance which they Suffer by being deprivº of
their former privilege as a free Port—Fernandina was made a Port of
Entry in the year in 1811, and continued so until the Cession; at
that period it was annexed to the collection district of Sº Marys
Georgia—The inhabitants not having committed any act to forfeit
their right, think it hard, that they should be deprived of getting
their supplies; except at a great expence by sending to Georgia for
them—It likewise prevents all enterprise, as their is no encouragement
for the inhabitants of Florida entering into foreing trade; as the
advantages arrising must go to the state of Georgia, under the present
collection division of this Country—The hardship of entering vessels
there and giving bonds, is very great; as many that would enter into
the commercial line residing in Florida cannot secure the duties in
Georgia; when it would not be inconvenient to secure them in Florida;
all which embarrassments discourage the inhabitants of Florida enter-
ing into any foreign speculation, although they have many articles
for exportation both for the European and West India Trade—at
present our supplies of West India produce come from the Nothern
states but which if we had a free trade we should import direct—
Fernandina (Amelia Island) is the only good and safe Harbour in
East Florida;-at the spring tides twenty one feet of water is on the
Bar, which is no way dangerous; it is spacious and safe for National
Wessels as well as merchantmen—Our Exports at present consists of
the best Sea Island cotton for the European Market, and a large
quantity of naval Stores will in time be shipped—For the West India
market Ranging Timber sawed Lumber—spars—staves—shingles
&°. the proceeds of which would be returned here in West India
been understood to be in operation and had already produced a large revenue for
the United States (Cong. Debates, 18 Cong., 2 sess., pt. 2, col. 697). In the next
session of Congress the same committee introduced on Jan. 17, 1826, a bill to
annul an act of the Legislative Council concerning wreckers and wrecked property
passed July 4, 1823 (Fla., Acts, 1823, pp. 128–132). Remarks regarding the evil
results of this act were made by Rep. Webster for the committee and by Del.
White in justification of the Council's action in passing the act (Cong. Debates,
19 Cong., 1 sess., pt. 2, col. 998). An act of Congress approved Feb. 1, 1826,
annulled the Florida act (4 STAT. 138).
* Groups of the signatures are in the same hand.



816 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Produce, the duties arrising would be considerable—we therefore pray
that your Honourable body will take our case into consideration, for
although no immediate advantage might derive to the United States,
in time it will be the Emporium of Florida for European and West
India goods—We therefore pray that you will admit Fernandina to be
a port of entry with all the privileges granted to a port in the states—
Your Memorialists submit with great respect to the consideration
of Your Honourable body the facts herein stated.
FERNANDINA Amelia Island Decbº 20° 1823–
Rob" Harrison John Brown
John Rodman Esq' Collector of John Middelton
Sº Augustine by his order Cha" Martin Arnau
Seton
Eph" Harrison
John Harrison
Sam" Harrison Sen'
Domingo Fernandez
J. T. Lowe
G. Reynolds
F D M*Donell
Isac Wingit
Thomas Moae
Jeramiah Wingat
John Wingat
Joel Wingat
Horatio Lowe
Fernandez Lowe
James Olkman
James Dell
William Walker
Nicholas Segui
Franco L. Pons
Domingo Acosta
John Acosta
Ant" Dias
Mich" Mabrity
Andres Lopez
Inocencio Cardona
Jose Bergallo
John Llanza
Domingo Luna
Jose Carderöl
Jose Lopez
John Cercopoly
Francis Barbé
Francis Triay
Francis G. Triay
Peter Triay
Peter Capo
John Reyes
Felix Rentey
Bernardo Sintas
Gaspar Rosy
José Arnau
Pedro Arnau
William M*Donell
James Pelot
Thomas Backhouse
Benjamin Woods
Sam" Woods
Francis Woods
Nath" Barker
B M Dell
Simeon Dell
Enoch Daniel Sen
William Daniel
Ab" Daniel
Wily Daniel
E Daniel Jun
James G. Smith
Abrm Smith
C. Smith
E Taylor
Wm Woods
Cha" Love



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 817
L. Williams J. Middleton Junior
Fernandez Lowe John D. Braddock
Jesse Reaves Farq' Bethune
their has not been time to procure more—
[Endorsed] East Florida A Petition of sundry inhabitants of East
Florida praying for the establishment of a Port of entry at Fernandina
Florida For a port of entry—Jany. 19. 1824 Refº to the Commº" on
Commerce Call 75 Commerce "
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES GADSDEN
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. Fº)
DEPMT OF WAR 23 Decem" 1823
COL” JAMES GADSDEN Commissioner &c S" Augustine.
SIR, Your letters of the 26 ° & 29* Ultimo " and the 1* instant
have been received.
The order for the movement of the troops detailed for the occupa-
tion of Tampa Bay was given immediately after the receipt of your
first letter on the subject; ” and it is hoped they will arrive at their
destination in time, to afford you any aid that may be necessary to
facilitate the performance of your duty.
The letter which you enclosed for Col" Humphreys has been
delivered to him.
The treaty has been ratified by the Senate; & Col” Humphreys is
ordered to repair forthwith to his post to attend to its execution.”
A copy of the order is enclosed for your information. It is impossible
to give specific instructions here for the execution of the treaty; and
the Agent is therefore directed to consult with the Governor & your-
Self in the measures to be taken for that purpose. You will accord-
ingly afford your advice and take the course which may in your
judgment be necessary & proper, having the most rigid regard to
economy.
Your request “that some of the smaller armed vessels on the West
India station may be directed to enter occasionally the Bay of Tampa
& Charlotte Harbor” has been submitted to the Secretary of the
Navy, who has replied that he would order commanders to comply
with your wish.
* House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 154. No further action is noted.
* Printed also in A.S.P., Ind. Affairs, II, 442.
* Ante, p. 795.
* See ante, p. 802, n.
70 Ante, p. 795.
* Dec. 24, 1823, NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. F), printed, A.S.P., Ind.
Affairs, II, 615.
301867–57–58



818 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P.A.P.E. R. S.
The Bill which you have drawn on this Department for $125 will
be paid when presented and charged as requested.
Lieut. Ripley & yourself will proceed to run out the reservations
after you have completed the survey of the principal tract assigned
to the Indians. It is desirable that the whole should be completed
as soon as practicable.
In a former letter I stated that the additional compensation which
you propose should be allowed to Lt Ripley,” would be fixed after
your report of the survey is received.”
I have &c. J. C. C.
WATERS SMITH TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
St AUGUSTINE E. F. 23rd December 1823–
SIR/Your letter of the 6* December instant came to hand this
day,” covering Treasury draft Nº. 7341—on the U.S. Branch Bank
at Charlston for $2631 61/100—for the payment of the Corporation
debts of this city originating in the years 1821 and 1822, being amount
for which as Mayor I receipted to you; ” I shall without delay pay
to individual claimants the amount due them, and transmit to you
their receipts—
I do not at present hold the office of Mayer, but will with much
pleasure attend to this agency; and the individual claimants, will no
doubt duly appreciate the liberrality of the Department at Wash-
ington, to which they are indebted for the payment of their demands—
With much respect Your obed" Serv"
WATERS SMITH
FONTAINE MAURY Esq." Agent
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esquire Agent Washington City
[Endorsed] Waters Smith Sº Augustine 23 Dec 1823
72 Ante, p. 783.
* See post, p. 841.
* Ante, p. 804.
75 Ante, p. 617. Smith's two original receipts, one dated Nov. 1, 1823, for the
sum of $2478.61 in settlement of the claims of the City Council of St. Augustine
upon the United States, and one dated Nov. 2, 1823, for the sum of $153 in settle-
ment of the claims of John Dubose, William Robertson, Philo Andrews, and
D. Copp for services rendered by order of the City Council of St. Augustine, are
in NA (GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No 1418 [1823). A detailed list of the debts
in question, for the period Aug. 27, 1821–Oct. 23, 1822, containing the approval,
Dec. 5, 1823, of Secretary Adams (in his own hand) is also found loc. cit. It is
endorsed as having been enclosed in Smith's letter of Apr. 15, 1828 (not found).



FLO RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 819
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF
FERNANDINA, EAST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
TERRITORY OF FLORIDA (December 24, 1823]
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States in Congress assembled—
The Memorial of the Undersigned Citizens and Inhabitants of the
Town of Fernandina (Amelia Island) East Florida—Respectfully
sheweth—
That his Catholic Majesty the King of Spain reserved to himself
the right of 1500 Warras (equal to 1395 yards 2% feet) round all
fortified Towns in Florida: commencing from the flagstaff, and form-
ing a circle, for the conveniance of defending the place; when not
required by the King the Inhabitants were allowed to cultivate the
same—The said ground has been measured and planted by the poor
Inhabitants for many years, from which they obtain their support—
Your Memorialists pray that your Honourable body will confirm
the right of the Town of Fernandina to the said 1500 Warras, and to
all the Public Lots in the said Town for the benefit thereof—The
rent arrising from the said land, altho only a small portion is arable;
will in time enable the overseer of the Town to provide for the poor;
have a School House, and defray the expences of a Minister, of whom
we stand in great need—We humbly pray that your Honourable body
will take our Memorial into consideration and grant our petition—
FERNANDINA 24 December 1823
Cha" Seton William Tiboret
Gaspar Rosy Thomas Backhouse
Domingo Acosta Ynocencio B. Cardona
Domingo Luna John D. Braddock
Franco L. Pons Eph" Harrison
Antonio Dias Samuel Harrison
Miguel Mabrite John Harrison
John Llanza Rob" Harrison
Martin Arnau
Francs Triay
Frances G. Triay
Peter Triay
Bernardo Sintas
John Reyes
Joseph Lopez
Pedro Arnaw
Joseph Arnaw
Peter Capo
Andres Lopez
Sam" Harrison jun’
W. H. G. Saunders
J Middleton
Wm Parker
Jn” Brown
Juan Cercopoly
Jose Estella
F D MDonell
James Pelot
William MDonell



820 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Endorsed] Florida Memorial of the Inhabitants of Fernandina,
Florida praying a grant to the said Village of certain Public lots in
said Village Jany. 19. 1824 Ref" to Com” Pub. Lands Feby 2. 1824
Bill reported Nº. 947° Call 76 Pub. Lands
FONTAINE MAURY TO ANTONIO ALWAREZ
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 27 Dec. 1823
ANTONIO ALVAREZ Esquire
: SIR Your Letter covering an account of $450 for a quarters Salary
as one of the Commissioners to arrange and assort the Archives and
documents given up by the Spanish authorities at Sº Augustine, has
been duly received,” and I now have enclosed you my Check on the
B. of the U S B at this place for that sum—I am at the same time
directed, to state to you, and your associate M* Reynolds, that this
appointment was by no means considered a permanent one, and that
both the President of the U.S. & the Scy of State, had confidently
calculated that the object of it would have been long since fully
accomplished—but as unlooked for obstacles may have occurred to
impede your progress, you are requested to give to this Department
the necessary explanations for this delay, and to make a finish of the
business as soon as the circumstances of the case may admit of.”
I am with great Respect Sir, your very humble and obedient Servant
FONTAINE MAURY Agt
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO SAMUEL COOK AND OTHERS
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. F]
DEPMT OF WAR Decem' 30. 1823.
Mess" SAM! CoOK &c B. S. SAUCHER” & others, S*Augustine
GENTLEMEN, Your memorial to the President has been referred by
him to this Department.”
The Negroes to which the memorial refers were found among the
Indians in Florida when that territory became the property of the
U States, and as the Department did not possess any particular infor-
mation as to the relation in which they stood to the Indians or of the
existence of a claim to them on the part of our citizens, no instructions
* The Committee reported a bill on Feb. 2, 1824, granting donations of land
to certain actual settlers in the Territory of Florida (House Journal, 18 Cong.,
1 sess., pp. 160, 199, 516, 530, 542, 587, 596, 598, 603, and Senate Journal, 18
Cong., 1 sess., pp. 438, 439, 488, 493, 494, and 497. The bill was approved
May 26, 1824 (4 STAT. 47).
77 Not found.
* Answered post, p. 903.
78a Sanchez.
* Ante, p. 762.



FLO RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 821
were given to the Commissioners, who negotiated the late treaty with
the Florida Indians on the subject; consequently no provision
respecting it was made by that treaty.
The President has no power under the existing laws relating to the
Indians, to authorize the erection of such a tribunal as you suggest, to
try the right of property, to the negroes in question, between the
Indians and our Citizens. The only proper course therefore for the
claimants is by application to Congress through their delegate, who
I have no doubt will promptly attend to any request they may make on
the subject.
I have &c. J. C. C.
EDGAR MACON TO DELEGATE CALL *
[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd., 1824, Bk. 1:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE Dec. 31. 1823–
HON. RICH. CALL,
SIR, In the month of August last, a prisoner was sent from Key-West
to this place, to be tried for murder (which from all accounts was one
accompanied with every aggravation). I was not able to bring the
prisoner (who is called Nicholas Goulindo,) to trial at the last superiour
court in consequence of the absence of the witnesses, & I see no pros-
pect of procuring their attendance hereafter, for they reside at Key
West, between which place and this there is no communication what-
ever, unless you will be so good as to wait upon the Secretary of the
Navy, and request him to give such instructions to sehre one of the
commanders of one of the small publick vessels on the West Indian
station, as will authorise them him to bring the witnesses from Key-
West. Without this is done, the prisoner must escape without a trial
Be so obliging as to communicate with me upon this subject, as
soon as you know the Secretary's will, for the confinement of the
prisoner, who is a spanyard, excites much feeling in this place, Forgive
me also for requesting some information, respecting the prospects of
florida at Washington
With great respect I remain Sir Your most obedient &c
EDGAR MACON
The Witnesses are at Key Vaccus insted of Key West.”
[Addressed] Hon” Richard K. Call Member of Congress. Wash-
ington D. C. [Postmarked] Sº Augustine 30 Dec Free
so Enclosed in a covering letter of Jan. 18, 1824, from Delegate Call to the
Secretary of the Navy, submitting the subject to his consideration,
* This line appears to be in in Call's hand.



§
ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA
No 1
[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 47,415:DS]
[December, 1823]
Abstract of compensations to Grand and Petit Jurors, for their attenance at a Superior Court held at Jacksonville for the District
of East Florida, and for their travel to and from the said Court, December Term 1823.−
For Attendance For Travel Total Amount | Original signatures of Jurors
Amount Amount #. *; *w each
Names Places of Abode No. No. §."jaj for #.
of of Dollars. Cents Florida the Sums affixed
days Doll" || Cts Miles Doll" || Cts to our respective names—
GRAND JURORS
John Bellamy Forem.” Gravelly hill 2 2 50 16 80 3 || 30 John Bellame
Stephen Eubank Nassau river 2 2 || 50 70 8 || 50 6 S, Eubank
John Houston Talbot Island 2 2 || 50 90 4 || 50 7 John Houston
Isaac Tucker Nassau River 2 2 || 50 6 30 2 80 Isaac Tucker
Charles Broward Nassau River 2 2 || 50 44 2 20 4 || 70 Cha" Broward
John Broward Nassau River 2 2 || 50 40 2 4 || 50 John Broward
Seymour Pickett Six Mile Creek 2 2 || 50 12 60 3 10 Seymour Pickett
John Price Six Mile Creek 2 2 50 12 60 3 || 10 John Price
James Dill St Marys river 2 2 || 50 100 5 7 || 50 James Dell
Wm H. Matthews Roses Bluff 2 2 || 50 100 5 7 50 W. H. Mathers
Cotten Rauls Trout Creek 2 2 50 24 1 | 20 3 || 70 Cotton Rawls
A. G. Lopez Alligater Creek 2 2 || 50 48 2 40 4 90 A. G. Lopez
Lewelling Williams St Marys River 2 2 || 50 80 4 6 || 50 Lewelling Williams
Stephen Wansant Jumping off Creek 2 2 50 80 4 6 || 50 Stephen Vansant
Charles Seton Amelia Island 2 2 || 50 140 7 9 || 50 Cha” Seton
John D. Braddock Little St Marys 2 2 || 50 124 6 || 20 8 70 John D. Braddock
John C. Houston Ship Yards 2 2 || 50 100 5 7 || 50 John C. Huston
Nathaniel Wiles St Marys river 2 2 || 50 90 4 || 50 7 Nathanel Wilds
Joshua Hickman Mulberry Grove 1 1 || 25 46 2 || 30 3 55 Joshua Hickman
Wm Fitzpatrick Cedar point 1 1 || 25 84 4 20 5 || 45 Will Fitzpatrick
88 47 || 50 1806 65 80 112 || 80



§
PETIT JURORS
Robert Harrison
F. D. McDonald
Thomas Suarez
Lewis Christopher
B. M. Dill
Britton Knight
James Rouse
William Sparkman
John Higinbotham
David Turner
Matthew H. Phillips
John G. Barrow
John G. Rushen
John D. Waughn
William G. Dawson
Cyrus Briggs
Lewis Thigpin
Samuel Sauls
Joseph Haddock
Amelia Island
Ditto
Ditto
St John River
St Marys River
St Marys River
St Marys River
near Alligater Creek
Boggy Swamp
Cedar Creek
Coys Creek
Black Creek
Alligater Creek
opposite Amelia Isl.
Jacksonville
St John River
Six mile Creek
Cross Swamp
St Marys River
Grand Jurors brought forward
District of East Florida December term 1823 ss:
Examined and allowed
Joseph L. SMITH Judge of the Sup Ct.
[Endorsed] No 1 Compensation to Jurors December Term 1823 Doll" 221.25
2 2 50 140 7 || 00 9 || 50
2 2 || 50 140 7 9 || 50
2 2 50 140 7 9 || 50
2 2 50 70 8 50 6
2 2 50 80 4 6 || 50
2 2 || 50 80 4 6 50
2 2 50 80 4 6 50
2 2 50 60 3 5 || 50
2 2 50 56 2 80 5 || 30
2 2 50 24 1 || 20 3 || 70
2 2 50 4 20 2 || 70
2 2 50 60 3 5 50
2 2 50 44 2 20 4 || 70
2 2 50 100 5 7 || 50
2 2 || 50 2 50
2 2 || 50 10 50 3
2 2 50 32 1 || 60 4 || 10
1 1 || 25 44 2 20 8 || 45
2 2 50 80 4 6 50
37 46 || 25 | 1244 62 | 20 108 || 45
38 47 || 50 || 1306 65 30 112 || 80
75 93 || 75 || 2550 | 127 | 50 221 || 25
Robº Harrison
F D Me Donell
Thomas Suarez
Lewis Christopher
Bennett M Dell
Britton Knight
James Rouse
Wm Spaman
John Higginbotham
David Turner
Matthew H. Philips
John G. Barrow
J. G. Rushing
John D. Waughan
W. G. Dauson
C Briggs
Lewis Thigpin
Sam' Sauls
Joseph Haddock
Amount paid Petit Jurors
Amount paid Grand Jurors
Total paid Drs 221.25
Stated by WATERS SMITH Marshal
I do hereby certify, that the Jurors named in the foregoing abstract were duly summoned, and for their attendance and mileage, at
this Term, are legally entitled to the compensation affixed to their names respectively
JAS SCOTT TINGLE Clk. Sup' Court East-Florida



824 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters.:ALS)
Sº AUGUSTINE Jan. 6* 1823. [1824]
SIR. The course I have pursued in the Commission has been too
distinguished for its regard to the interests of the United States not
to be a subject of very considerable surprise that there should be any
delay in the confirmation of my appointment to which effect and for
your particular satisfaction permit me to refer you to communications
in the possession of M* Loyd of the Senate M* Edwards “of the same
and Mº Hayward * of the House—In the knowledge that the com-
munity are satisfied with the integrity and intelligence of my conduct
I have declined answering the publications of my Colleagues in de-
fense of their decisions and the more gratified have I been with the
estimation of the public as my investigations have been strict and
extensive—
I must particularly request that my name may not be withdrawn "
as I cannot submit with indifference to the invidious interpretation of
a Compromise—I make no crimination of my Colleagues leaving the
public to judge if I be compelled to make an exposition—
I have desired the Board to report our proceedings to the Secretary
of the Treasury as it is absolutely necessary that there should be an
extension of our session at least until the end of the next Session of
Congress which they have declined upon the ground of a difference of
opinion in the Board—A conclusive reason why we should communi-
cate, as affording the best evidence of the conduct of the Commis-
sioners—If the Commissioners perform their duty with resolution
the Nation has an additional and valuable cause to be satisfied with
conduct of General Jackson in detaining from Governor Coppinger
the papers pretended to belong to the Spanish Nation—I am sorry to
say that the full benifit of the detention has been frustrated by the
determination of the Board, not to take possession of these papers,
and that those only have he secured which were detained in virtue of
a subpoena duces te cum issued at my request—
With sentiments of the highest respect I have the honor to remain
Your Ob Sevt.
ALEXANDR HAMILTON
JAMES MONROE–Esq—
A Mr Symington * is now in Washington a large Claimant, who
ought from his interest to be hostile to my course will I have no doubt
1 “as I have been informed” [marginal notation on the MS].
* There were two Lloyds in the Senate, Edward Lloyd of Maryland, and James
Lloyd, of Massachusetts.
* Ninian Edwards, a Senator of the United States from Illinois.
* William Hayward, Jr., a Representative in Congress from Maryland.
* Referring to his nomination to the Senate as Land Commissioner.
* Presumably, John W. Simonton.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 825
afford you a satisfactory and faithful explanation—I have not the
merit of being a violent presbyterian puritan, nor an eternal psalm
singing Methodist "
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO DAVIS FLOYD
[NA:GLO, PLC, East Fla. Repts., 1822–1823:LS)
S* AUGUSTINE 8 January 1824–
To/ DAVIS FLOYD Esq'
SIR It is with much pleasure I reply to your note of this morning,
in the hope that a full explanation of our respective views of the course
most adviseable for the Commission to pursue, may lead to the adop-
tion of such regulations as will tend to facilitate the discharge of the
important and delicate responsibilities, with which we are entrusted—
It is for this purpose I submit the following propositions and
regulations
First—That the Secretary be directed to translate and record, the
Royal Orders, the official correspondence, the regulations of the Gov-
ernors and the Instructions and calculations controling the Surveyors—
Second—That the Commission ascertain whether the Governors of
East Florida possessed any authority to dispose of the Public lands
independent of the Royal Orders and whether their regulations are to
be considered the acts of the Spanish Government and as such to be
respected in our adjudications—
Third—That the Commission determine whether the Royal Order
of 29* March 1815 authorizing Grants for Military Services be not
controlled by that of the 29* October 1790 and what are the conditions
refered to in the latter order
Fourth—That the Commission ascertain whether the Surveyors
were authorised to change the location of Concessions at discretion and
in the same manner to divide grants and locate the Several parts and
whether they were not subject to certain regulations and the table of
Percel explanatory of the Same—
Fifth–That the Commission determine whether they can enquire
into the validity of the circumstances of a Grant, anticident to the
issuing of the Royal Titles, where the concessions have been made
within the authority of the Royal Orders—
Sixth—That the commission decide whether the abandonment of
the Province by the British Subjects after its cession to Spain in 1783
did not by operation of the Treaty of Cession, re-attach their lands
to the Royal Domain—
Seventh—That the Commission enquire whether Grants containing
the customary clause, “without injury to third persons,” were valid
against the Spanish Government, if it should appear, that the lands
* See post, p. 917.



826 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
petitioned for had been previously granted, without a Subsequent
Decree and order to change the Location—
Eighth—That the Commission ascertain whether Decrees for pastur-
age and Mill Seats conveyed more than a permission to use the pasture
and timber and whether the Government did not reserve the right to
concede to others, all the plantable lands contained therin—
Ninth—That the Commission determine whether lands abandoned
for more than two years in Succession were not considered vacant
lands reverting to the Royal Domain, the Grantee continuing to
reside in the province, and whether if so, the effect of such an abandon-
ment can accrue to the benefit of the United States, when the absence
of the claimant was an incidental consequence of the rebellion of 1812–
The propriety of establishing these preliminary principles will, I am
confident, appear to you necessary upon mature reflection—Without
Settling some general law, it will be impossible for the Commission to
do justice to the claimants and perform their duty to the United
States—The Means of diciding are in the possession of the Commis-
sioners for which the United States are principally indebted to the
detention of the Public Documents from Governor Coppinger by the
order of General Andrew Jackson—
I again offer for the consideration of the Commission, regulations,
the utility of which if candidly examined, cannot fail to meet its con-
currence, the more especially as the embarrassment of our present
proceedings, practically teach the necessity of resorting to some change
1* Regulation
That the Secretary be directed to prepare a discriptive list of the
Claims, according to the form presented by me and adopted by the
Commission—
2 Regulation
That the Secretary be directed to Class the claims under the respec-
tive Royal Orders on which they are predicated and that the Commis-
sion proceed to the examination and adjudication of the claims in
classes—
First Class Those predicated in the Royal Order of the 29* March
1790 Seperating those with, from those without Royal Titles—
1* Specification those not exceeding 1000 acres
2d ditto not ditto 3500 do
3d ditto exceeding 3500 d"
Second Class Those predicated on the Royal Schedule of the 17*
June 1801 granting the houses and lots and remitting the principal
and interest to the purchasers—
Third Class Those under the Royal Order of 29th of March 1815
authorising bounties for Military Services, divisions and Specifications
as in the first class—



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 827
Fourth Class Those under the Royal Order of September 3” 1817,
directing the Intendant of Cuba to dispose of lands in East Florida—
Fifth Class Those emanating from the British Government
Sixth Class Those Grants for Services and not predicated in either
of the Royal Orders—See Miranda's for 24 Miles and Arredondo's for
20 Miles Square and Buyck's for Fifty thousand Acres—Divisions
and Specifications as in first Class—
Seventh Class Those dated after the 24* January 1818 and by the
Treaty declared null and void
3” Regulation
That the Commission commence as soon as the papers are in readi-
ness to adjudicate upon the Claims under the Order of 1790 and in the
meantime, that they collect the evidence in the large Grants to be
transmitted to Congress during the present Session—
4* Regulation
That in all those cases, within the final jurisdiction of the commis-
sioners, that the Memorial of the claimant, or an abstract of the Same
made by one of the Commissioners, together with the original grant,
concession or order of Survey be alone recorded, with a Memorandum
exhibitting the deraignment of title as follows, that C claims from B by
deed bearing date the [blank] day of [blank] in the year [blank] who
derived title from A the grantee on &c.—wills, deeds, bills of Sale or
other mesne conveyances, not be recorded, except by reference as
exhibits ABC—
5* Regulation
That in all cases beyond the final jurisdiction of the commissioners
that the Memorial of the claimant with the documents incident to the
grant, the Memorial, Decree, order of Survey, Survey and confirmation
or Royal Titles (if there be any) be recorded, together with an abstract
of the documentary evidence, but that the deraignment of title be
only recorded by reference as in the preceeding regulations
7* Regulation”
That the Commission will retain through the whole course of the
examination of witnesses a Supervisory control, that immiterial and
illegal evidence be not recorded—
8* Regulation
That it will no longer be the duty of the Secretary to make out
Memorials or prepare commissions for the examinations of witnesses—
* Regulation 6 is not included.



828 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
9* Regulations
That the Secretary will hereafter confine his written translations to
material parts of Spanish Documents and in all cases, within the final
jurisdiction of the Commission, having Royal titles, the attendance of
the Secretary will only be required to give parol translations—
10" Regulation
That in all cases where there are Royal Titles, the fees for recording
will only be charged on the Memorial and Royal Title, but in all cases
on condition, Seeking confirmation fees will be charged on Such records
as the commission shall determine essential to the establishment of the
claim, when directed to be recorded—
I have been thus particular to avoid the usual misunderstandings
incident to the irregular manner in which our proceedings have been
minuted and more illegally kept in loose Sheets and I anticipate that
you will no longer indulge in so disingenuous an interpretation of my
motives, as to imagine that I would attempt to expose the regulations
of the commission by the introduction in a disguised form of a practical
illustration of their injurious inexpediency—It is impossible that the
Commission can investigate the claims with advantage, if they are to
be taken into consideration, without any other System than the order
in which they have been enterred—I am confident when you have
deliberated upon these propositions and regulations you will be con-
vinced of the propriety of their adoption, the more especially if you
reflect upon the embarrassments that now procrastinate our examina-
tion and that for all useful purposes the business of the commission is
now essentially Suspended—I appeal to your candour to acknowledge,
whether I have not repeatedly anticipated our present difficulties, as
the necessary consequences of the decisions of the Commission and
whether your recent anxiety to have perfected the discriptive list
submitted by me, might not be considered as conclusive evidence—
I am aware, in some instances arising from the unfortunate indul-
gence of the Commission in permitting claims to be filed not corre-
sponding with our regulations of the 1* August last, that the memorials
present but an imperfect statement of the claim, which, may however
be Supplied by a little extra attention on the part of the commissioners
in collating from the testimony a brief analysis, or by directing the
claimants to file supplementary memorials—
It is with much pleasure I avail myself of your admission that “the
time when we must make report to Congress will shortly elapse” to
renew the proposition, to report immediately to the Secretary of the
Treasury the acts and proceedings of the commissioners and in as
much as we have done little more than to order the claims to be filed
(none of which have been recorded) that we suggest the propriety of
an indefinite extension of our Session, if our Secretary is to translate



F. L. O. R. I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 829
and record all the testimony and that further time be allowed for the
admission of the numerous claims that remain to be presented
I am perfectly willing “to take all the claims now in readiness into
consideration,” which state of preparation, according to the decisions
of the majority of the Commission will place under our consideration
only, thirty seven claims, of which eleven are not within our final
jurisdiction notwithstanding we have a Secretary authorized by law,
and by two assistants appointed by the Commission—
The following decisions I have uniformly opposed and in my estima-
tion they ought to be reported to Congress
The majority of the Commission have decided that all documents
presented shall be recorded in extenso and those in Spanish be trans-
lated by the Secretary—Thus giving an employment to the Secretary
of an indefinite termination and in as much as the mesne conveyances
are of indifference to the United States and as Congress has reserved
no right to revise our proceedings, within our final powers, there can
be no necessity to record the evidence in cases of confirmation as our
decisions will undoubtedly be made, upon the force and authenticity
of the originals—
The majority of the commission have decided to adjudicate upon
claims, where the Grants have issued subsequent to the 24* January
1818—and without giving any reasons for so doing, notwithstanding
the Treaty declares, all such grants null and void—
The majority of the commission have decided that the authorization
to confirm to actual Settlers to the amount of Three thousand five
hundred acres must be understood to include all persons resident in
the territory at the time of the cession, and not to be limited to those
who were at that period in the actual possession and occupancy of the
lands claimed
The majority of the commission have decided, that they will adjudi-
cate on claims without examining the original documents while they
are aware that the public records in the possession of the Keeper of the
Public Archives have been much exposed and are still kept in loose
Sheets, without Schedule or discriptive list and that the letter from
Governor Kindelan, the foundation of the Royal Order of 1815 has
been essentially altered and that transcripts of different import have
been funished—The advertisement of the keeper of the Public
Archives also make known to the Commission, that a small Grant has
been withdrawn from the office and one of 16,000 acres Substituted—
The majority of the Commission have repeatedly refused to report
its proceedings while they have unofficially communicated with the
Secretary of the Treasury without giving any intimation of the time,
manner or substance of their communication The delicacy and pro-
priety of such conduct I do not understand and abstain from comment



830 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I have the honor to remain with much respect and regard Your
Obed" Serv't
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
Note referred to from Davis Floyd Esq" to Alexander Hamilton
“In as much as the commissioners will be able to make final de-
cision of but few Claims and as much time will be necessary to in-
vestigate and report Sundry rules, regulations and Customs prevalent
in the province relative to granting lands, and as the time when we
must make report to Congress will shortly elapse, I would propose
for consideration, whether it would not be proper to take all the
claims now in a State of readiness into consideration have them
recorded and finally decided; and whether we would be able to devote
more of the our time & our Secretary to the investigation of new cases
or whether probably the whole time may not be necessary to the
preparation of those before us—Yours &c.—
ALEXANDER SCOTT TO THOMAS NEWTON, JR."
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess.:ALS)
GEORGE Town Jan'y 8th 1824
SIR I take the liberty to transmit you the enclosed documents,”
in relation to the collector's office at Pensacola, which will I feel
assured, shew the justice and propriety of granting a reasonable
salary to that officer. The extracts from the Register's office shew
the amount of commissions received by the collector for twenty one
months to have been only $138:77/100. The enclosed letter of
Sam" Myers Esqr" (formerly of Norfolk) that during the time that
he acted as Deputy Collector, the fees and emoluments averaged
about fifteen dollars a month, barely sufficient as he very correctly
states to defray the expences of printing stationary and fuel, which
the collector has himself to furnish. In addition to this, I can from
my own experience, state that Pensacola is a very expensive place,
the officers exposed to the dangers of an unhealthy climate and the
place by no means in a state of commercial improvement. I can
further remark that there are few places which present greater facili-
ties for the violation of the revenue laws, and where active and
vigilant officers are more required.
Under these circumstances I feel convinced that you will consider
it just to allow the collector a reasonable compensation, and that the
salary should commence at the time the compensation allowed by the
President under the “act for taking possession of the Floridas”
ceased.
* A Representative in Congress from Virginia.
* Not present.
* Not present.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 831
In order to shew that there are precedents for retrospective salaries
to collectors, I beg leave to refer to the case of John B Esseltyne
Collector of Cape Vincent, whose commission is dated 7” Aug: 1818
& who by act of Congress, 7” May 1822 Sec: 19 11 was allowed a
salary to commence from the period of his appointment *
Can I beg your early attention to this business I am Sir with great
respect Yº Obed" Servº
ALEXANDER SCOTT
[Addressed] The Hon”*Thomas Newton Chairman of the Committee
of Commerce Washington
[Endorsed] Alex" Scott Jan’ 8. 1824 Pensacola
ALEXANDER SCOTT TO THOMAS NEWTON, JR.
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess.:ALS)
GEORGE Town Jany 9° 1824
SIR When I took the liberty to write to you yesterday in relation
to the Collector's office at Pensacola, I omitted to advert to one
circumstance which I consider material. The office of Surveyor of
that port, with a salary of three hundred dollars a year, has been
created by law. I can with great confidence state that such an officer
at Pensacola is entirely unnecessary, the collector being fully adequate
to the performance of all the duties appertaining to the office. No
teas wines &cc are, or probably ever will be imported into that place,
so that a surveyor is without employment. I think therefore the
office ought to be abolished, and the Collector should receive a com-
pensation for his services”—
I am Sir with great respect Yr Obedt Servt
ALEXANDER SCOTT
[Addressed] The Honorable Thomas Newton. House of Repre-
sentatives Washington
[Endorsed] Alex" Scott Jan’9 1824 Pensacola—
11 3 STAT. 696.
* The Committee on Commerce, which was instructed by a resolution passed
Jan. 12, 1824, to inquire into the expediency of allowing a salary to the collector
at Pensacola, reported a bill for that purpose on Jan. 23 (House Journal, 18
Cong., 1 sess., pp. 140, 168, 172). See post, p. 840.
* This office was abolished by an act approved May 26, 1824 (4 STAT. 43).



832 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Letters Recd. (Fla.):ALS14]
PENSACOLA. Jany 12* 1824
SIR I have the honor to inform you that since my departure from
St Augustin I have carefully examined the interior of Florida which
is in my opinion the most desireable and valuable region in all the
Southern Country—Capt. Burch, no doubt has made his report to
you of his rout to St Augustin from this place and of course has given
in his report a discription of the Country, soil &c."
I visited all the Indian Towns on my rout to this City and en-
devoured to impress on the minds of the Chiefs the importance of
restraining their warriors, and preserving the friendship of the U
States, I am sorry to say that the Indians under the immediate
command of Neamathla, have been concerned in killing the cattle,
in two days after the troops at St. Marks were removed. I have
taken great pains to assertain the real feeling of the Indians toward
us—and can reley with some confidence, on the friendship of all the
chiefs except Neamathla, he is a man of uncommon capacity, bold,
violent and restless—He cannot submit to a superior or endure and
equal. No reliance can be placed on him, and his men are the most
lawless and vile of the Indians in Florida, I feel confident that they
will not remove into the boundary given to them by the late Treaty
unless their is a military force in the vicinity to overawe them—
I do not believe that these Indians will dare to commence hostilities—
but they steal from and kill the cattle of the White Settlers whenever
they have an opportunity. A few men kept at St: Marks untill the
Indians are removed I deem, necessary—
I am respectfully your Obt. Sevt.
Wm P. DUVAL
HoN” J. C. CALHOUN Secretary at War.
[Addressed] Hon” John. C. Calhoun Secretary at War Washington
City [Postmarked] Pensacola Jan’ 16 Free
[Endorsed] Duval W P. Pensacola, 12 Jany, 1824. relative to Florida
—to the Indians, &c.
JOSEPH M. WHITE TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
(private) PENSACOLA Jan 14* 1824
SIR, I learn that Samuel Fry has gone to Washington for the purpose
of soliciting some appointment, it is supposed that of District att”; I
take the liberty of assuring your Excellency that he is a man of
notorious bad character, & has been expelled from the Bar of the
14 Printed also in A. S. P., Indian Affairs, II, 615–616.
1° Ante, p. 764.



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 833
Superior Court; the object in endeavoring to procure this appoint-
ment is to exempt offenders from punishment for Forgery & Perjury
& one who has lately attempted to assassinate me, and for the purpose
also of favoring fraudulent titles in Court, (should a law pass refering
them to the Courts) which have been reported by the Commissioners
as Forgeries. There are unfortunately many in this Country deeply
interested in these claims who would be pleased with the appointment
of Mr Fry.
I regret to inform you, that great dissatisfaction is felt in this
Country with many appointments & particularly those of the last
Council—John Lee Williams was recommended at a public election
in this County, that election was disregarded and a Boatman by the
name of Compton, appointed, upon the pretext that a letter was
received from some one who said another could prove something un-
favorable to Mr Williams. He is a member of the Bar & his deport-
ment in this Country has been of the most unexceptinable character.
He has afforded me great assistance in the detection of fraud &
Forgery for which he has many enemies, for there is no sin here, so
grievous as that of exposing fraud. Judge Brackenridge & many
other respectable persons will forward a recommendation before the
end of the session in favor of Mº Williams.
I am very respectfully yr obt st
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] His Excellency James Monroe President of the U. S.
Washington City [Postmarked] Pensacola Jan’ 14 Free
[Endorsed] 14 Jan 1824. White Joseph M. Recommends John
Lee Williams as Attorney in Florida. dept of State Mr White
Pensacola
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO DELEGATE CALL
[NA:PO, PMG Lets. to Cong.]
POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT 15 Jan’ 1824
HON. R. KCALL M. H. R.
SIR, I observe in reply to your letter of the 13" ins',” that the Con-
tractor was instructed to convey the mail on the land route between
Jefferson G. and St Augustine, on the day that you called at this
Office upon the subject, the Offices that you have recommended will
be established."—
J. M*LEAN
* Not found.
”See post, p. 846.
801867–57–54



834 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO GEORGE M. BROOKE is
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, xI:Cl
PENSACOLA, January 15* 1824
LIEUT. CoL GEORGE M BROOKE, Commanding Officer of the United
States troops destined for Tampa Bay,
SIR, I have been informed that a Wessel has lately landed Wood-
Choppers at Charlotte Harbor or Tampa Bay for the purpose of
Cutting timber.
I have received orders from the President of the United States, of
the most decisive character, to arrest all persons who may attempt to
cut timber on the lands claimed by the Government. In order that I
may promptly execute this mandate of the Government I am specially
empowered to call on, any commanding officer either of the military
or naval department stationed in or on the Coast of Florida for such
aid and assistance as I may deem necessary for this object.
I therefore request, Sir, that on your arrival at Tampa Bay you
will send a detachment to Charlotte Harbor and arrest all persons,
that may be engaged in cutting timber at that place, or any other
on that coast, and by the first conveyance have them sent to Pensa-
cola.
The Government does not admit or recognize any claims to land
in that part of Florida as belonging to individuals, and if any such
are pretended legally to exist the persons claiming the same must
obtain first a confirmation of their grants before they will be permitted
to Cut the Timber. If any individual who may set up a claim to
land (not admitted by the United States) was at liberty to dispose
of the Timber, it is obvious that a pretext would never be wanting
on his part to despoil the lands belonging to the United States of the
valuable Timber.”
With sentiments of high regard and esteem, I am Your ob' Servant.
(Copy) Wm P. DUVAL
[Endorsed] in Gov" Duval's Letter of 13th feby 1824
* Enclosed in a letter of Feb. 13, 1824, from DuVal to the Secretary of State,
post, p. 847.
* No documentation has been found regarding action by Col. Brooke concerning
timber trespassing at Charlotte Bay during 1824; he may have been too busy
establishing Cant. Brooke that year. In the following year he did become con-
cerned about the activities of Spanish fishermen and Indians at Charlotte Harbor.
On Mar. 19, 1824, by direction of the President, the Secretary of the Navy ordered
a naval patrol of the west coast of Florida (NA, ND, SN, Lets. to Officers of
Ships of War, Bk. 15, printed, A.S.P., Naval Affairs, II, 656).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 835
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO GEORGE M. BROOKE
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
Jamy 16th 1824
COLO. G. M. BROOKE. 4* Infy Pensacola.
SIR. I have received your letter dated the 25” Ult” ”—The ar-
rangements which you have made in relation to the transportation
of your command to Tampa Bay are approved—Instructions have
been given to the Q M* at Pensacola to afford you every facility
in his power”—Captain Isaac Clark has been appointed an ass" in the
Quarter Master's Dep" and will be ordered to join you at Tampa
Bay—until he arrive, I must request you to instruct the Ass' Commis-
sary to perform the duties of Q Master. The Quarter Master at
Pensacola will furnish you with the necessary funds.”
I am Sir, &"
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA W. F. January 21** 1824.
GENERAL, I have the honor to report that on the 30” December
last, I chartered the Brig “Victory”” & the Schooner “Thomas
Shields” ” for Tampa Bay. Capt. Brady” who had been sent to
Mobile by Colonel Brooke previous to my return chartered the Brig
“W* & Henry” ” for the same service—She arrived at Pensacola on
the evening of the 8* Inst. Two Companies were embarked on board
each Brig. The quartermaster's department here supplied the com-
mand with five mules, 225 Bush. corn, 12000” Hay, 35000 feet plank,
16000 Brick, 50 Barrels lime, 1000" Iron, 140" Steel, 600" Nails,
Carpenters & Blacksmith's tools & sundry other articles. A flat was
built by the order of Colonel Brooke & transported thither in pieces,
requiring but a few hours after their arrival to put it together & land
the public property—two large & good Boats were also taken by the
command. Three months supply of provisions was also shipped on
board the vessels. The vessels were fully laden & in addition to her
cargo of Stores, the mules were carried on the deck of the Shields.
They sailed on the evening of the 15* Inst, with a fair wind & most
* NA (WD, QMG Letters Recd.).
* The Quartermaster General to Burch, Jan. 16, 1824, NA (WD, QMG Lets.
Sent, Bk. 6).
* See infra.
* Contract with James B. Selby and Co, of Pensacola (NA, WD, QMG, Reg.
of Contracts, No. 1).
* Contract with Capt. James Forsyth, Dec. 31, 1823 (loc. cit.).
* Francis W. Brady.
* Contract with H. B. Sampson, master, and agent of the owners of the brig
(loc. cit.).



836 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
probably reached Tampa the third day after.—At my request Colo.
Brooke directed Lt. Triplett " to report to me for the purpose of
attending to the removal of the public property at St. Marks; he
left here on the 7" Inst. for that Post & will embark it on board the
Shields, as she is engaged to call there on her return from Tampa.
Copies of these several charters are enclosed.*—
On the 3" Instant I contracted with Capt. Pindar for the trans-
portation of Col. Fenwick's command to Norfolk—he had however
previously been to Mobile & engaged the Ship Henry Hill at the
solicitation of Colonel Fenwick & the Gentleman who had charge of
my office during my absence.” The Ship was reported to me by the
Captain of her, on the 16” Inst. about 11 A. M. & during that and
the succeeding day, births were put up, the provisions stowed on
board & the vessel fully prepared to receive the Troops. On the
18" she dropped down to the Barrancas & on the morning of the 20°,
by the expiration of the four days provided for in the charter, the
Troops were on board & the vessel ready for Sea.—
I enclose herewith duplicates of the contract with Pindar,” the
triplicate is retained in my Office. By the terms, $.2100 is payable
to his order at your Office. Capt. Post has his order to receive that
amount & I respectfully request you will remit him the sum of $.2100,
upon the receipt of the order & the proper certificate of the Com-
manding Officer, in a draft upon such Branch Bank of the U. S.
Bank as he may designate. In order that there might be no difficulty
on the subject, I enclose also Pindar's account & receipts for the $.2100
in due form excepting that the receipt is left blank, to include in it
the demurrage if there should be any at Norfolk. In making the
contract I would have made the whole payable here, but it was
necessary for them to receive it at or near to the Port to which they
were bound; and to secure to them prompt payment, I deemed it
most advisable that the 2100$. should be paid at your office; the
Balance $.200, I shall pay here so soon as I am notified that the con-
tract has been fulfilled.”—
27 Joshua Botts Triplett.
* Not present, but recorded in the Register of Contracts cited above.
29 NA (WD, QMG, Reg. of Contracts, No. 1). Charles Pindar had been sutler
at Fort St. Marks, and, following the removal of the troops from that post,
had applied on Dec. 4, 1823, for appointment as sutler at Tampa Bay (NA, WD,
AGO, Lets. Recd.). He was associated in the sutlership at Pensacola to the
Fourth Infantry with W. Read, from whom the Adjutant General also received
a letter dated Dec. 4, in which he recommended Pindar for the appointment at
Tampa Bay (NA, WD, AGO Lets. Recd.). Indemnification to these men for
losses sustained as a result of the removal of the troops from Pensacola to Tampa
was urged upon the Secretary of War by Judge Brackenridge and George Walton
in a letter of Dec. 19, 1823 (NA, WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 205).
* Not present.
* No reply found.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 837
I have the honor to be Sir with perfect respect Yr Mo. Ob. Servº
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
To/BRIG: Gen' THOMAS S. JESUP Q* M: Gen' U. S. Army. Wash-
ington City, D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt D. E. Burch Pensacola. 21 Jan 1824 12 Feb 1824
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA. Jany 22nd 1824
FONTAINE MAURY Esq Agt.
You letter of the 24” of October * had been here for some time before
I left St. Augustin—Owing to the ill health of the Secretary Col"
Walton it was not presented to me untill a day or two since. I re-
ceived of Co" Walton $1,000 of the Five thousand which is refered to
in your letter and as soon as my baggage arrives which will be in ten
days. The account with the vouchers shall be immediately trans-
mitted under cover as you desire to the Secretary of state,
I am Respectfully Your obt. servant
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Fontaine Maury Esq. Department of State Washington
[Endorsed] Duval Wm P. Pensacola 22 Jan; 1824 Recd 12 feby
Disbursements.
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DANIEL E. BURCH
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
Jamy 22d 1824
CAP* DAN' E. BURCH Ass" Q M. Pensacola
SIR. I have received your letter dated the 30” Ul" * & I have this
day required for you the sum of Five thousand dollars on account
of the Quarter Master's Department.
Arrangements must be made to secure the Barracks & other public
property at S* Marks, which cannot be removed; and should Gov-
ernor Duval apply to you for the use of the public buildings for the
accommodation of the Legislative Council, or any other branch of
the Territorial Government of Florida, you are authorized to transfer
them to him or to the person or persons whom he shall appoint to
receive them.
** Ante, p. 774.
* NA (WD, QMG, Reg. Lets. Recd., no. 4), stating that transportation would
be furnished to Col. Brooke. The text has not been found.



838 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PER S
Your report in relation to the proposed roads was received,” but
no decision has yet been made on the subject. I shall, at an early
day lay it before the Sect” of War.”
I am Sir, &"
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA W. F. January 22° 1824.
GENERAL, If it is intended by the Department to supply the Post
of Tampa Bay by means of a public Transport, I beg leave respect-
fully to suggest the expediency of selling the Amelia & purchasing
another vessel more suitable. She is now twelve years old & I con-
sider her an unsafe vessel both from that circumstance & her size for a
Sea voyage of such length. She might last for a year or two yet in the
Lake navigation, where in Stormy weather a harbor could be made
at all times; but between this and Tampa there is no harbor East of
the Appalachicola & that is north of the direct course; besides she is
too small, her cargo is less than 200 Barrels & she is sailed at the same
expense of one carrying 450 Barrels. I can purchase a Schooner,
built last Summer expressly for the coasting trade in the Gulf & now
at Mobile, for $.4000, carrying about 450 Barrels. She is copper
fastened & it would cost about $.500 to have her coppered, a measure
essential to her preservation from the worms in this Bay.—If she had
been owned by the United States it would have cost the Government
about $.350 to have transported the Company of Artillery from
St. Marks to this place, & a load of Stores to Tampa Bay whereas I
shall now pay $.1400 to the owner of the Shields for the same service.—
If the vessel alluded to had been in this port when I last chartered the
Shields, I should have purchased her for the public service & trusted
to you for an approval of the purchase.—
It is probable however that hereafter I shall be able to charter
vessels on terms somewhat more reasonable than I have engaged the
Shields for this voyage, but even that depends much upon the con-
venience of getting up the Bay & the facility of landing their Cargoes.”
I have the honor to be Sir, With perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Serv"
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
TO/ BRIG: GEN" THOMAS S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. Army. Wash-
ington City D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt D. E. Burch Pensacola—Jan 22. 1824 12 feb. 1824.
** Possibly an acknowledgment of Burch's letter of Oct. 5, 1823, ante, p. 764.
* See post, p. 851.
* Answered Feb. 16, 1824, with the instruction to use his discretion in regard
to the purchase of the vessel (NA, WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6). See post, p.
844.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 839
THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, CE Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]
ENGINEER DEPARTMENT January 26* 1824.
HON J C CALHOUN Secy of War
SIR In pursuance of your instructions * I have the honor to state
what has been done towards the completion of a project for the defence
of the harbour of Pensacola—what plan should be adopted for the
completion of the Works at Dauphin Island, should it be determined
to resume the prosecution of them, and whether “the plan now pursued
in the prosecution of the works at Mobile Point is the most practicable
for the interest of the Government, and the speedy completion of the
Work”
The Harbour of Pensacola has been examined by the Board of
Engineers, and a Topographical Engineer under their instructions has
made the surveys requisite to enable them to project the plans of
defence; but he has been prevented from preparing the drawings of
them, by other duties being pressed upon him to be fulfilled without
delay, and the project, consequently, has not yet been commenced.”
The Topographical Engineer has been ordered to complete the draw-
ings, and the Board of Engineers will be instructed to prepare the
project as early as practicable.
Should it be determined to resume the works, at Dauphin Island,
it would be advisable to complete the Quarters without delay, whereby
the work already done to them, which might otherwise be lost, would
be saved and a respectable temporary defence would be secured—
the Quarters by there peculiar construction, being calculated to serve
as a Citadel or Reduit to the main Work. In this state the work
would remain without injury should the means applicable to the
fortifications on the Gulf of Mexico be limitted and their application
to the works intended to guard the avenues to New Orleans be deemed
of paramount importance—In that case it would be advisable, in
addition to the Quarters or Citadel to finish the Salient Place of Arms,
opposite the channel, which would be attended with but inconsider-
able additional expense, and would admit of being established as a
Battery for the temporary defence of the Channel, while it would
itself be commanded and protected by the Citadel.
“The Plan now pursued in the prosecution of the works at Mobile
Point” viz an officer of Engineers having them committed to his
direction, and being held responsible for their faithfull execution, is
that pursued at all the other works under construction, with the
exception of those at Rigolets and Chef Menteur, and is believed to be
*7 No written instructions found.
* James Kearney. See ante, p. 808, and the Secretary of the Navy to the
Secretary of War, Sept. 13, 1825, post, vol. XXIII.



840 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
the most oeconomical and efficient. The work at Mobile Point was
commenced under a Contract, in the belief, that it would be the most
oeconomical manner of conducting it, but experience having proved,
that it was not adapted to a section of Country of such limitted
resourses as the frontier of the Gulf of Mexico, it was abandoned and
the present plan was adopted. The work progresses satisfactoraly
and it is not anticipated that any obstacle will prevent its completion
as soon as the state of the appropriations will justify.
Respectfully Submitted
(Signed) ALEx MACOMB Maj Gen! Chief Engineer
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY ALEXANDER SCOTT
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]
[Referred January 26, 1824]
To the Honorable the Senate & House of representatives of the United
States in Congress assembled.—
The Petition of Alexander Scott respectfully sheweth That your
Petitioner was in June 1821 appointed Collector of the Port of Pensa-
cola by the President of the United States who under the law author-
izing him to take possession of the Florida's, allowed a Salary of one
thousand dollars per annum to the several Collectors of Pensacola,
Sº Augustine and Saint Marks—
That your petitioner accepted the said appointment, and proceeded
to Pensacola for the purpose of executing the duties thereof—That
he has from that time continued to perform the duties of the said
Office by himself or deputy, his son remaining there to act in his
behalf, and the accounts being still kept in your petitioner's name.
That Congress by a law passed in May 1822 * gave a Salary of five
hundred dollars a year to the respective Collectors of Sº Augustine &
S*Marks, but made no provision for a Compensation to the Collector
of Pensacola—That the Commissions received by the Collector during
the year 1822 amounted to ninety four dollars, and sixty five Cents,
and during the same period his fees and emoluments amounted to
ninety dollars and eighty six Cents, making in the whole one hundred
& eighty Dollars and fifty one Cents—
That no return of the fees and emoluments for the year 1823 has
yet been received at the Treasury, but your petitioner beleives there
is not much difference in the two years. Your Petitioners Salary
allowed by the President ceased on the first of November 1822, since
which period has received nothing but the trifling fees of the Office,
out of which had to furnish his stationary and printing—Your
Petitioner under these circumstances prays the Honorable Congress
of the United States to take his case into consideration, and to allow
* May 7, 1822, 3 STAT., 684–685.



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 841
him such Salary as in their wisdom they may deem reasonable from the
time his salary allowed by the President ceased during the period of
his continuance in Officers Collector of the Port of Pensacola and your
Petitioner as in duty bound shall &c. &c.
ALEXANDER SCOTT
[Endorsed) Memorial of Alexander Scott tax Collector of Pensacola
Kall 71 Commence Jany—26–1824 Refº to the Commº" on Commerce
April 14—1824 Com” discharged—leave to withdrawn rejected—
compensation—disch" & withdrawn Kall”
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, SW Lets. Recd., 1822–1823:ALS)
CANTONMENT BROOKE Jam” 27. 1823 (1824]
SIR. This is the first opportunity I have had of communicating to
you my operations in this quarter—It was my intention to have ad-
dressed you from the interior; but it being the hunting season, when
every day was valuable to the Indian, I found it impossible to employ
an Individual, as an express, in whom confidence could be placed—
From the partial examination which I have made of the country as-
signed the Indians, I am inclined to the opinion that it contains a
sufficient quantity of land, adapted to the purposes of agriculture, to
support a much larger population than that acknowledged by the
Florida Indians—It will notwithstanding be advisable, if not neces-
sary, to extend the Northern boundary & I am the more disposed to
recommend this extension as it may be done without allotting to the
Indians any larger body of good land, or without encroaching upon
any district inviting to a white population—The present Northern
boundary is but a few miles from the Settlement of one of the principal
chiefs while it runs within sight of the residence of another It en-
croaches upon what must be the grazing grounds for those settlements
& to the raising of cattle must these southern Indians in a degree
resort—There country is not only better adapted for Stock of Cattle
than anything else; but the Indians have already a disposition for
that employment & cannot be easily reconciled to agricultural labors—
By extending the North line 5 or 6 miles a fine range for cattle is
secured to the settlements of Meconope & Setarky; Those chiefs, now
unfriendly, may be more reconciled to the terms of the Treaty; A
geographical boundary strongly marked may be obtained; & a Bend
in the Amaxura River surrounded by swamps & ponds, but productive
in a wild potatoe highly appreciated by the Indians will be embraced
within the limits allotted them—I shall on my return mark the line
* House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., 411. By an act approved May 26, 1824,
Scott was allowed salary at the rate of $500 per year (6 STAT. 318).



842 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
proposed & hope for the reasons stated that it will meet with the
approbation of the Executive—
I have ascertained & marked the line as far as practicable to a
point N° East of this & shall recommence my operations South
tomorrow—The impoverished state of the Indians; the impractica-
bility of packing liberal supplies of provisions for my party, & the
time already lost in having to visit settlements for subsistence alone
has rendered it necessary to charter a small vessel to proceed to
Charlotts Harbor—I obtain her at a moderate rate & her presence in
the Bay will afford me great facilities in running the line; & in ex-
ploring that district of country; a service I have considered as con-
nected with my commission & not the least important part of it—I
hope by my movements South to ascertain the real character &
capabilities of a Country hitherto unknown, all of which will be
submitted to you in a detailed report on my return—I have found the
Indians friendly disposed in this vicinity & evidently much pleased
with the prospects of establishments in this quarter from whence they
may obtain supplies of the comforts & conveniences of life—A large
number are expected to revisit this place on their return from hunting
when Co' Brooke will explain at large to them the objects & views of
the establishment of a Military Post on this Bay—I am confident
they are well persuaded of their weakness or inability to contend
successfully against the U States and are disposed to rely on the
justice and magnanimity of the American government
I arrived here on the 8 and Co' Brooke with a part of his detachment
on the 20" instant, the remainder are in the Bay below & expected up
this day—We have selected a point of land at the mouth of North
Hillsborough river, at the head of the Bay of the same name as the
site for the Military Post—The location is judicious as it regards the
objects to be effected by a Military establishment in this quarter &
should it prove healthy it will be one of the most desirable Posts in
the southern country—There is a small body of good Hammock land
already cleared & well adapted for gardens at the spot; The Garrison
may commence their agricultural labors immediately & be well Sup-
plied with vegetables this season—This circumstance, connected with
the fact, that high undulating pine lands which have been traced for
nine miles in the interior & approach to the very rear of the site, have
induced a belief that it will prove healthy—If otherwise however the
Troops may be removed & encamped for the sickly season in the Pine
lands—It is prudent however in a Country of this lattitude & so little
known to anticipate the worst & be prepared against every contin-
gency—I would most strenuously recommend therefore a liberal
supply of Hospital Stores & Two surgeons for the first year at least—
In the event of accident from sickness or death it will be recollected
from the remote situation of this Post in a Wilderness that no resort



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 843
can be had to the medical talents of resident Physicians of neigh-
bouring Settlements---The command are without artillery some few
pieces of ordnance of small caliber may be important & a small vessel
to enable the commanding officer to preserve an intercourse with the
Depot at Pensacola untill the land communication is opened may be
necessary—
I have assumed to myself the naming of the Cantonment, under a
confident belief that that of Brooke will be approved of & confirmed
by the Executive *—The prompt movement of Co' Brooke under the
orders for establishing a Post at the Bay of Tampa “merits the notice
of the Dep" of War—It is but little more than 2 months since the
order alluded to was issued at Washington; & more than one third of
that period was consumed in its passage to Pensacola “
With respect Your ob Svt JAMES GADSDEN
THE HON J C CALHOUN Sec War
[Endorsed] Gadsden, J. Cantonment Brooke 27 Jany, 1824 relative
to running the boundary line—to Cantonment Brooke, &c. Map
enclosed
SECRETARY WALTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA Jan’ 29 1824.
HON JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State,
SIR, I have the honor to enclose to you my account * against the
United States, the three first items of which were properly payable
out of the fund deposited in my hands last year, the balance of which
has already been repaid by me to the United States; but as I believed
the United States justly chargeable with their amount and as they
were presented under a belief that I still continued to hold funds for
their payment, and were delayed probably thro' ignorance I concluded
to advance the amount of them believing that when Gov. Duval
arrived here, he would refund to me. But as Gov. Duval now informs
me that he has no funds for this purpose I am compelled to include
those items in my account for the Contingent expenses of my office.
The account of M* Bouquié was accompanied by the receipts of the
gaoler without any official addition to his signature I therefore re-
quired of Mº B. an affidavit, which was presented at the time of
payment and which I have since caused to be also written upon the
voucher enclosed.
* See post, p. 845, n.
* Ante, p. 784.
* See post, p. 850.
* Not present.



844 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I have the honor to be Your Most obedient humble servant
GEO. WALTON
[Addressed] Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Walton, George, to the Secretary of State. Pensacola
29 Jan. 1824 With an aſc.
SECRETARY WALTON TO FONTAINE MAURY
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA Jamy 29. 1824
FONTAINE MAURY Esq Washington,
Dr Sir, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 20" Nov.” enclosing your check for $134.23. and return you
my thanks for your attention.
I have to day enclosed to the Secretary of State my account for
the contingent expenses of my office in which is also included some
disbursements which are payable out of the appropriation of $100,000.
for certain expenses in Florida. I hope that the balance of that appro-
priation has not yet been paid into the Treasury as I fear that in that
event the payment of those items will be delayed. You will add to
the many obligations I already feel to you by procuring the speedy
settlement of those accounts and by remitting to me their amount in
the most convenient mode to you.
I have the honor to be Your Most obedt serv"
GEO. WALTON
[Addressed] Col. Fontaine Maury
[Endorsed] Walton George Pensacola 29 Jan. 1824 With an aſc
GEORGE M. BROOKE TO THE COMMANDING GENERAL
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:LS)
Camp on Hillsborough river February 3" 1824
SIR I have the honour to report that I left Pensacola with four
full Companies on the 15* January last and arrived off the mouth
Santo Spirituo Bay on the 18" but unfortunately was blown to Sea
the Same evening by a Severe gale. The vessell on board of which I
was regained the Bay on the 20" the other two did not join untill
some days afterward. On the twenty second met with Col Gadsden
who had arrived some days previous and who had made a partial
reconnoisance of the country but had not selected any particular spot.
On visiting several places, and after a consultation we determined on
this place as the eligible regarding the objects of the expedition, health,
* Meaning Nov. 19, 1823, ante, p. 792.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 845
and the conveniance of receiving supplies We were also influenced by
the quantity of cleared land which was at once adapted to gardens
for the officers and men. We are setuated on the Northeast bank of
the Hillsborough river immidiately on its entrance into the Bay of
the Same name a chart of the position is enclosed” Col G. did me the
honour of insisting that the Contonment, should be called Brooke,
but it will be known, by that of Hillsborough til the pleasure of the
War Department shall be ascertained.”
Immediately in the rear of this place say two miles, the ridge of
piny lands commence in which I saw some very fine springs and should
the slightest disease manifest it self we will retire on it with our tents.
I would beg leave to remark the neessity of having at least two Ass"
Sergions at all times here and an abondance of good Supplies. We are
even at this time badly off for tents in consequence of our not being
able to procure the necessary number from New Orleans, and those
we took from Pensacola we all old with the exception of a few commen
tents and we in the summer be compelled to move on the high land
they will be absulately necessary There in the neighberhood of this
place most excellent scite for a grist and saw mill which could be
erected at a small expence provided the metirials were furnished as
we have two fine millwrights in the command. It would not only be
a great conveniance to the troops but would have a good effect on the
Indians in grinding their corn and furnishing them with some plank
and should the department ever wished to dspose of it. it would add
very much to the value of the land I have no doubt but that, this
country will be settled by emigrants from the southern States so soon
as it is known they are protected from the Indians by the Command
stationed at this place. There are very many large Hammocks of
very fine land near us no doubt adapted to the Cultivation of Sugar
and every variety of vegitable production. I have not as yet seen
many Indians but expect to have a talk in a few days as I have Sent
to the Chiefs. those whom I have seen do not appear to be well
pleased with the treaty and have expressed some dislike to Colonel
Gadsden's runing the line.-They will be treated with Kindness and
respect but at the same time with determination and firmness. It
would have a good effect on the Indians if some of our vessels of War
were ordered to look into this Bay frequently from Key West from
which we are but a short distance. The Indians appear to have no
Idea of the strength and power of the United States. Col G lift us
two days since himself and party in good health upon his request I
furnished him with three additional men. The number of tents I
* Not present.
** The name of Cantonment Brooke was authorized for the new post (the
Adjutant General to Winfield Scett Mar. 22, 1824, NA, WD, AGO Lets. Recd.,
S 32).



846 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
should wish forwarded will be fourteen Wall, two Hospital, and fourty
Commen. By every Oppertunity I Shall furnish Such information
as I may acquire of the Country and its resources, with such other
matter as may be interesting to the Dep" of War.”
I have the honor to be most respy Yº very Obt Servant]
GEO. M. BROOKE Col. USA Comg
N. B. I should wish that two six pounders mounted, with a supply
of cartridges, lead & fixed ammunition might be ordered from
Pensacola. We might be absolutely in want of them.”
TO/MAJOR GEN' JACOB BROWN Comm" in Chief
[Addressed] To Major Genl. Jacob Brown Commd in Chief Wash-
ington City [Postmarked] on Service
[Endorsed] Hillsborough Florida 3: feby. 1824 Col. G. M. Brook 4
Infy. Reports the arrival of the troops at Tampa Bay &c. &c
wants cannon & tents. 19 March 1824
ST. AUGUSTINE TO JEFFERSON MAIL ROUTE
[LC:St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, Feb. 7, 1824)
[February 7, 1824]
New Mail Arrangement for Florida.-The mail commenced running
from this to Jefferson, in Georgia, by way of Jacksonville, last week.
At Jacksonville John L. Doggett Esq. is appointed Post-Master, and a
Post Office will therefore be opened there immediately.”
THE LAND COMMISSIONERS (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Applications:LS]
PENSACOLA, 12” Feb'y. 1824.
SIR; We some time since addressed a letter, through you to the
President, recommending Mº M. Hunter, our present Secretary, as a
suitable person to fill the vacancy in this Board of Commissioners.
Upon conversing with Mº Hunter upon the subject, he appears to be
entirely satisfied with his present situation, and prefers withdrawing
his pretentions to the appointment proposed. Feeling the necessity
of having the vacancy filled, we have, under these circumstances,
taken the liberty of recommending Colo. John Miller of this place, to
the attention of the President. We can testify to his honesty and
intelligence, and have evry assurance, that he would harmonize with
the present members of the Board, as well as inspire general con-
fidence.—
* No reply found.
* This note is in Brooke's hand. See post, p. 914.
* See post, p. 851.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 847
The necessity of filling the existing vacancy in the Board, is sug-
gested by the consideration, that it is now rendered probable, that we
shall not be enabled to complete the duties of the Commission at as
early a period as was some time since anticipated. Additional claims
have been submitted for adjudication, and others will, no doubt, be
filed as soon as it is known that our term is prolonged. Besides, it is
possible that cases might be presented, upon which the present mem-
bers of the Board should differ in opinion; in which event, we could
only report the claims for the decision of Congress. Upon a considera-
tion of all the circumstances connected with the subject, we are satis-
fied ourselves, of the necessity of making the proposed appointment.
It would, alternately, give some relief to the present members of the
Board, provide a remedy for any division of opinion, and inspire
additional confidence in our decisions, all which, however, is respect-
fully submitted.—
With evry sentiment of respect and esteem, we have the honor to
be Y mo obt. Sevts.
SAM! R. OVERTON.
JOSEPH. M. WHITE
[Addressed] Honorable John Quincy Adams, Sec'y of State, Wash-
ington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola Feb’13 Free
[Endorsed] John Miller Commissioners, Overton and White, Pensa-
cola, 12 feb 1824 Recd 4 March recommend John Miller to supply
the vacancy in their Board.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, XI:LS)
PENSACOLA 13° February, 1824.
HON” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State,
SIR, I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter to Lieut. Co'
George M. Brooke;" Since this Letter was delivered to Col Brooke I
have understood that a Mº Hackley, who pretends to claim a part of
the Duke of Alagon's Grant, is the person who has sent hands from
the North to Tampa Bay for the purpose of cutting Timber.” Much
* Ante, p. 834.
* The grant by the King of Spain to the Duke of Alagon, Feb. 6, 1818, was
transferred to Richard S. Hackley, of New York, May 22, 1822. The grant had
been declared invalid according to the terms of the treaty of cession, along with
the Puñon Rostro and Vargas grants, but Hackley, nevertheless sought to estab-
lish its validity. The Alagon grant and the deed of transfer to Hackley are pub-
lished in Richard S. Hackley, Legal Opinions on the Title of Richard S. Hackley,
to Lands in East Florida (New York, 1831), pp. 5–7, 9–15. See also Miller,
Treaties, III, 20–31, 42–49; T. Frederick Davis, “The Alagon, Puñon Rostro, and
Vargas Land Grants,” Fla. Hist. Quar., XXV (Oct. 1946), 175–190.



848 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
of the valuable timber on the Chocktawhache River has already been
pillaged. I lately descended this River 50 or 60 miles, and observed
that every Cedar tree near the river side had been cut and carried
away within a year or two past. In passing through the interior of
Florida I had an opportunity of examining particularly the Country.
The interior is, in my opinion, the most valuable Southern Country I
have ever seen. Between the Suwannee and Apalachicola Rivers I
estimate the good land at 1200000 acres. This region produces Sugar
Cane and Sea Island Cotton in greater perfection than any other part
of the Southern Country. The lands are uncommonly rich, and
finely watered. The face of the Country is generally rolling, and in
some parts mountainous. I have no doubt that this tract of Country
alone will sell for more than the Florida Debt. There are no private
Grants in this quarter, except the grant to Forbes & Co.; nine tenths
of which is as poor as any lands in Florida. From the view which I
have had of Florida I state, without the fear of contradiction, that
there is more good land in Florida than is to be found in Louisiana.
I am, respectfully, Your Ob" Humble [MS. torn]
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” John Quincy Adams. Secretary of State.
Washington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola Feby 13 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Gov. Pensacola, 13 feby 1824 Recd 4 March.
Public timber & lands in florida.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS)
PENSACOLA Feby 14* 1824
JOHN. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
I was compelled to imploy a clerk from the first of may last to the
20* of November, in the executive office, I wrote to you that the
interest of the Territory required me to, send the Secretary Co"
Walton to Pensacola while I remained in St. Augustin This was done,
I imployed as a Clerk Tho" Murphey, and wish to know if his claim
for services will be allowed by the Goverment I am personally
responsible to M* Murphey and shall be compelled to him out of my
salery if your department, can not make the Allowance, I agreed for
no specific sum, it was to be such as you might consider as reasonable,
I have never been authorized by the Secretary of the Treasuary to
draw for a cent to meet the local expences of the Government of the
Territory—what I am I do, in future? It is desireable that I should
be placed on the same footing as the Governors of other Territorys
and I request sir you will speak to the President on this subject, I
dislike to trouble either the President or yourself yet I can but con-



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 849
sider myself as neglected, and only ask that the same rule and rights
be extended to me that is usually granted to Officers holſding] the same
situations *
I am Respectfully Your ob" ser" Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Honle John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] Pensacola Feby 13 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Gov. Pensacola, 14 feby 1824 Recd 4th March.
Employment of a Clerk. Duval Gov. Pensacola 14 Feb: 1824 Recd
5th Mar: Account &c.
COMMISSION OF CRAVEN P. LUCKETT AS LAND
COMMISSIONER (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[February 18, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of An Act of Congress passed the
eighth day of May A. D. 1822; entitled “An Act for ascertaining
claims and titles to land within the Territories of Florida,” “ and
reposing special Trust and Confidence in the Integrity Ability and
Diligence of CRAVEN P. LUCKETT of Kentucky,” I have nominated
and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” do appoint
him one of the Commissioners for the purposes expressed in the said
* No reply found.
* Ante, p. 424.
* Letters in NA (SD, Applications) addressed to the President recommending
Luckett, a lawyer of Louisville, Ky., for a Federal appointment, include the
following: R. C. Anderson, June 8, 1823; William T. Barry, former Senator from
Kentucky, Aug. 28, 1823; Gov. John Adair, of Ky., Nov. 28, 1823; a Mr. Robert-
son, of Frankfort, Nov. 27, 1823; former Rep. Samuel H. Woodson (Ky.), Nov. 28,
1823; John Littlejohn, of Louisville, Dec. 15, 1823; former Rep. James D.
Breckenridge (Ky.), Dec. 15, 1823; John T. Gray, of Louisville, Jan. 4, 1824;
Rep. John T. Johnson (Ky.), Jan. 21, 1824; Rep. John Scott (Mo.), Jan. 24, 1824;
Sen. Waller Taylor (Ind.), Jan. 25, 1824; and a recommendation dated Jan. 24,
1824, for the appointment as land commissioner signed by all the members of
the delegation in Congress from Kentucky except Henry Clay, and also signed
by Rep. John Scott (Mo.), Del. Henry Conway (Ark.), Rep. William Prince
(Ind.), Sen. Waller Taylor (Ind.), Rep. Samuel Houston (Tenn.), Rep. James
Stephenson (Va.), Sen. Edward Lloyd (Md.), Rep. David Holmes (Miss.), and
H. Z. Benson. Luckett himself visited Washington in Feb. 1824 and on the
tenth wrote relative to the recommendations he had obtained. On Feb. 20, 1824,
he accepted the appointment (loc. cit.). Richard M. Johnson visited the Secretary
of State on Jan. 24, Jan. 28, and Feb. 3, 1824, to press the appointment (Memoirs
of J. Q. Adams, VI, 235, 240, 244).
* Nominated Feb. 12, 1824 and confirmed on Feb. 18 (Senate, Exec. Journal,
III, 362). The commission was transmitted on Feb. 20 1824 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets., XX).
301867–57–55



850 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Act, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally
appertaining.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L.S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the Eighteenth day of February A. D. 1824; and of the Independence
of the United States of America, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd. (Fla.): ALS)
CHARLOTTS HARBOR 20° Feby 1824
SIR Since my communication from the Bay of Tampa,” I have
continued my operations, and have completed running & marking the
western boundary line of the country assigned the Florida Indians, as
far as practicable—The line terminated in an extensive Savannah;
the commencement of what are called the great South West hunting
grounds—The Southern line extending eastward would have passed
through this Savannah as well as a chain of others, represented to me
as stretching to the vicinity of the Atlantic Coast—The line could not
have been marked & from the character of these extensive grassy
planes I doubt whether it could have even been run & measured—
There were strong considerations founded on sound policy for ter-
minating the line where I did, all of which will be communicated in a
detailed report I purpose making you on the final discharge of the
duties as Commissioner assigned me *— I retrogade from this Point
in a day or two, & after making the change in the North line suggested
in my letter from the Bay of Tampa will return without delay to
St Augustine"—
* Several other persons were recommended for this appointment (NA, SD,
Applications). Joseph M. White recommended John Lee Williams (ante, p. 832).
John Murphy, of Ala., was recommended in a letter to the President, Feb. 9, 1824,
signed by Sen. William Kelly (Ala.), Sen. William R. King (Ala.), Rep. George W.
Owen (Ala.), Rep. John McKee (Ala.), Rep. James Hamilton, Jr. (S. C.), and
Rep. George McDuffie (S. C.). White and Samuel R. Overton recommended
Col. John Miller (ante, p. 846).
* Ante, p. 841.
* Post, p. 905.
* A letter written by Gadsden from this place, Mar. 16, 1824, reported his
return and stated that he would survey on the Apalachicola (NA, OIA, Lets.
Recd., Fla.). From St. Augustine, May 20, 1824, he reported his return there
after having done all possible that season (loc. cit.).



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 851
Your obt Sert JAMES GADDEN
THE HONB' J C CALHOUN Sec War
I have this day drawn upon you in favor of M* C Pindar of Pensacola
for $382.50: on accº of expenditures for running the Indian boundary
line.—Feb” 21 1824 J G.
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO DOMINGO ACOSTA
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book B]
Post of FICE DEP. 20 Feby. 1824
DIMINGO ACOSTA FERNANDINA-near St Marys Ga.
SIR, I have your letter of Jan' 30" * as the mail now goes by the
land route to St Augustine & omits your office—you can transmit a
mail once a week between your office & St Marys provided that you
will do so for the neat receipts of your office and begin the first of next
month—the balance due from you as P. M. ought to be paid, one
draft made on you as P. M. has been returned unpaid.”
J. Mc
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.: ALS)
PENSACOLA, February 20° 1824.—
GENERAL, I have the honor to report that the Road from Pensacola
to Barrancas is completed excepting the Bridge over the Big Bayou,
touching which I request you will be pleased to instruct me.” It
appears that a man cannot be kept there expressly to attend to a ferry,
hence the flat has never been used although built, & unless the Bridge
is now built the labor already done will be so much thrown away.
Three other Bridges have been built on the Road, & I find that the
whole will cost more than my first estimate. $.208.50/100 has been
expended on this Road; & the Bridge over the Big Bayou, if built,
will cost in extra labor & the purchase of plank $.467.-I propose
purchasing the plank, for I found by a calculation that I could have
purchased that used for the other Bridges cheaper from the mill, than
by the extra payment to the Sawyers employed.—
I am Sir with perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Serv"
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
BRIG: GEN" THOMAS S. JESUP Q' M* Gen' U. S. Army, Washington
City D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt D. E. Burch Pensacola 20 feb. 1824 Road from
Pensacola to Barrancas. 16 March 1824
* Not found.
* See post, p. 900.
* Burch was instructed on Mar. 22 to complete the bridge (NA, WD, QMG
Lets. Sent, Bk. 6).



852 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
SAMUEL AYRES TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
[NA:HF, Orig. Reports TD, 19 Cong., 1 sess.:C *]
ALLENTON, Thompson's Island, February 20° 1824
SIR: On my arrival here, and seeing the absolute necessity for a
Collector at this place, I was induced, by the advice and consent of the
Commanding officer of this station, to act, also, as Collector, until I
could be instructed from your Department. I have heard nothing of
the recently appointed Collector, except that he was in New Orleans
about four months since, soon after he was appointed Deputy to the
former Collector, M. Yancey. For further information I beg leave to
refer you to Capt. Rosseau,” of the Navy, who has commanded here
for the last four months, and by whom this will be handed you.
I would further state, that it appears very necessary that an In-
spector should be appointed to reside at Key Wacus, owing to the great
number of English wreckers that cruise and rendezvous in that neigh-
borhood; and likewise that a set of the U. S. Laws, and a Seal, are
greatly wanted at this office.
I have the honor to be, &c.
S. AYRES.
The Hon W. H. Crawford Secretary of the Treasury.
[Endorsed] Nº 28. Thompson's Island, Feb. 20, 1824. S. Ayres
relative to the situation of the District of Key West.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA Feby 26* 1824
JAMES MONROE President of the United States
Fourteen months since I was compelled to leave Kentucky where I
had gone for the purpose of settling my private affairs and to remove
my family to Florida—neither of which was it in my power to accom-
plish, for want of time—I felt it my duty immediately to return to
Florida, to quiet the excitement that had been created, by not twenty
disappointed men, At a distance their clamour to one unacquainted,
seem the voice of the People, I knew better and on my return, soon
demonstrated that the great majority of the people were with me.
It is vain to expect that all will be pleased, I have dischaged my duty
according to my best judgement, and trust I shall continue to do so,
regardless of consequences I request your permission to return to
Kentucky after the meeting of the next Legislative council, (should
they meet in May next) or sooner if the council should not by law
assemble untill the fall or winter—My object is to finally settle my
* Printed also in H. Doc. 173, 19 Cong., 1 sess., p. 23.
* Lawrence Rousseau.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 853
private affairs in Kentucky and to remove my family to Florida,” I
am with sentiments of sincere respect and esteem your obt Svº
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed) James Monroe President of the U States Washington
City [Postmarked] Pensacola Feby 27 Free
[Endorsed] 26 Feby. 1824. Duval W* P. Solicits leave of absence
after May Gov" Duvall asks leave to visit Ky after May It can be
granted J. M.
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
[NA:ND, SN, Misc. Lets. Recd., 1824, Bk. 2:LS)
PENSACOLA Feby 27th 1824.
HON SAMUEL L SOUTHARD Secretary of the Navy.
SIR, The Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, by an Act
passed at their last session located their Seat of Government near
St. Marks." The Council under the existing organick law are to
meet the first of May next.
Believing it important to assembly them at the new Seat of Gov-
ernment, my arrangements are made for this object. Its execution
must, however, depend on your disposition towards this Territory—
The public records and furniture, stationary &c of the Territory are at
St. Augustine and this City; the Country will not admit of their trans-
portation through it. If you can, without injury to the public service,
order some small vessel to carry from St. Augustine and this place the
Books, records, and public furniture belonging to the Territory to
St. Marks, it would render us an essential service, and, at the same time
prevent the Government from incurring a heavy expense. If you
consider it proper to grant my request the vessel should be first sent
* No reply found.
* Approved June 24, 1823 (Fla., Acts, 1823, 33–34; Fla. Hist. Quar., I, Apr.
1908, 26–27). This act provided for the appointment of two commissioners, one
from E. Fla. and the other from W. Fla., who were to meet at Fort St. Marks on
Oct. 1, 1823, to explore the country between the Ockolockony River on the west
and the Suwannee River on the east and the northern boundary of the territory
and the Gulf of Mexico for the purpose of selecting a site for the seat of govern-
ment of the Territory. On motion of Del. Call, the U. S. House of Represen-
tatives adopted a resolution on Dec. 9, 1823, instructing the Committee on Public
Lands to inquire into the expediency of granting to the Territory of Florida 1280
acres of land at the site selected for the capital. The committee reported a bill
on Jan. 20, 1824, and on May 24 a law was approved; it provided for a grant of a
quarter section of land at the site for the capital and authorized its sale by the
Governor and Legislative Council for the purpose of raising funds for the con-
struction of public buildings. Three adjoining sections of land were reserved
from sale (House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 40, 163, 516, 530, 542, 568, 570,
571, 574; 4 STAT., 30–31). See post, p. 855, n. See also Terr. Papers (Ark.), vol.
xx1, index under Pope, Gov. John (selection of ten section grant), for similar
action.



854 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
to St. Augustine to receive the property there, and, after discharging
it at St. Marks, she should proceed to Pensacola, and ought to be here
early in April.
Should you feel any doubt as to the propriety of granting this
application, I request you will submit it to the President. Several
of the officers of the Government have families and household furni-
ture that cannot be removed except by water, and were they com-
pelled to charter a vessel for the purpose it would be ruinous to them.
If however the public interest will not permit you to send a vessel,
may I ask you to request the President to permit me to charter one
for this purpose? I have written to Gen' Call on this subject,” and
requested him to obtain your answer as early as convenient.
I am, with high esteem, Respectfully, Your ob' Serv"
Wm P. DuVal
[Addressed] Hon. Samuel L. Southard, Secretary of the Navy.
Washington. [Postmarked] Pensacola Feb” 27 Free
[Endorsed) Is there any of the small vessels now in the U. S.? If
not let a copy of this letter be enclosed to Comº P. with directions for
him to send a Wessel if he can to accomplish the Object. Mº Boyle
attended to 19th March *
PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR DUWAL
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:Pr.”)
[March 4, 1824]
By Wm. P. Duval, Governor of the Territory of Florida.
PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS in pursuance of an act of the Legislative Council of
the Territory of Florida, approved the 24th day of June 1823.” Com-
missioners were appointed, to select the most eligible and convenient
situation for the seat of government of the Territory of Florida, and
the said Commissioners have reported to me that they have selected
a scite in the County of Gadsden, situated “about a mile southwest
from the old deserted fields of Tallahassé, about a half mile south of
the Oke-lock-o-ny and Tallahassé, trail, at a point where the old
* Not found.
* On this date the Secretary of the Navy wrote DuVal that Commodore John
Porter had been instructed to send a vessel to St. Augustine (NA, ND, General
Letter Book, No. 14). No copy of instruction to Porter has been found; it was
entered in NA (ND, SN, Key to Officers’ Lets.) under the date of Mar. 19, 1824,
but was crossed out.
70 Printed contemporaneously in the Pensacola Gazette, Mar. 13, 1824, and in
St. Augustine, E. Fla. Herald, July 24, 1824; printed also in Gulf States Hist. Mag.,
I (Nov. 1902), 199–200, and Thomas, A.H.A. Rept., 1906, II, 153.
* This act is summarized ante, p. 853, n.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TO R Y 855
Spanish road is intersected by a small trail running southwardly.” ”
In the exercise of the discretion in me vested by the said act and for
the information of the good people of this Territory, I have thought
proper to issue this my Proclamation, requiring the members of the
Legislative Council, of the Territory of Florida, to assemble at the
scite above described, on the day appointed by law for the next
session thereof.
Given under my hand and the seal of the said Territory at Pensa-
cola, this 4th day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and twenty four and of the Independence of the United
States of America the forty eighth.
WILLIAM P. DUVAL.
By the Governor.
GEO. WALTON,
Sec'ry. of Florida.
[Addressed] Hon" John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City—[Postmarked] Pensacola March 5 Free
[Endorsed] Duval W* P. Pensacola 4 March 1824 Rec" 1 April
Proclamation for convening the Legislature
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG, Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA, W. F. March 7th 1824.
GENERAL, Believing that too long a time will elapse before my re-
turns for the current Quarter can be completed and forwarded, for
me afterwards to survey and mark out the road to Fort Mitchell, as
directed in your order of 11* September last,” for you to receive
my report in time to obtain an appropriation for opening it, if that
is intended, I have deemed it most proper for me to state at once
such facts respecting it as I know, and shall postpone the survey
until I again hear from you on the subject. I am fully aware of the
necessity of implicit obedience to the orders of a Superior in rank;
and in this case should not have ventured thus long to delay this
* The commissioners appointed were William H. Simmons from E. Fla. and
John Lee Williams from W. Fla. Williams did not sail from Pensacola until
Sept. 30, and after a difficult voyage reached Fort St. Marks on Oct. 24. Joining
Simmons, who had travelled overland from St. Augustine, at Ellis' Ferry on the
Ockolockony two days later, they proceeded, after receiving permission from
Neamathla, to explore the country around old Tallahassee village. They recom-
mended Tallahassee as the site for the seat of government. They both kept
journals which are published in the Journal of the House of Representatives of
Florida, 1903, pp. 1444–1473, and in the Fla. Hist. Quar., I (Apr.—July, 1908),
28–44, 18–29. A letter from Williams to Del. Call Nov. 1, 1823, relative to the
location of the capital, is printed in Brevard, Hist. of Fla. I, 263-265.
* Ante, p. 736.



856 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
duty, but since my return from St. Augustine I could not possibly
have performed it without wholly neglecting my other duties. Hav-
ing travelled over more than half of this route directly along the
trail, and crossed it at various other points, I am perfectly acquainted
with the Country through which it must pass, and, moreover, believe
myself to be as well qualified to make a correct estimate of the ex-
pense, and also to open it, if required, as if I had previously surveyed
and marked it out.—Two Routes present themselves from Pensacola,
first, via Fort Crawford up the west side of the Conecuh River,
crossing it at “Schurlock's ferry,” (12 miles from the Fort,) and
Second, to cross the Head of the Escambia Bay at Florida, (Beeler's
ferry,) and thence up the Pensacola Path. Both these routes would
unite, East of the Conecuh, about five miles from Schurlock's ferry.
The first mentioned route is perhaps from 5 to 10 miles farther than
the second; but nevertheless, is, I think, decidedly to be preferred,
because of the difficulty of the wide Ferry at the head of the Bay:-
If the road to St. Augustine had crossed at the Head of the Bay, the
junction of the two roads at this point would have caused a good
ferry to be kept up, which cannot now be expected Both of these
routes are now tolerably good waggon Roads, (as good, if not better,
than the mail road from this to Claiborne,) for the distance of one
hundred miles. There is a waggon Road also from Fort Mitchell
along this route for 25 or 30 miles, when it turns off to the right into
the Settlements lying between the Conecuh and the “Federal Road”,
leaving only about 50 miles which is not already travelled by wagons.
There are settlements along the road or trail for 100 miles from
Pensacola, after which there are no more immediately upon the trail
until within five miles of Fort Mitchell, at the Uchee Bridge, where
it ought to intersect the Federal Road. The distance from Pensa-
cola, via Claiborne, to Fort Mitchell is about 290 miles, & by the
proposed direct route will not exceed 180 miles. There will be a
Bridge over each to build at the Burnt corn creek, & murder Creek,
(near Fort Crawford,) and also three Small Bridges over the head
Branches of Pea River. The whole of this route is uninterrupted by
Swamps, or any Streams of size excepting the Conecuh River; and is
from Schurlock's Ferry a high pine ridgeway, being the dividing ridge
between the waters of Yellow water & Pea River on the East and the
Conecuh on the West. A good Road can be completed on this route
in almost the same time that it would take to survey and mark it
out; and I am of opinion that if a detail of one Lieutenant, one Ser-
geant, two Corporals & 24 men from the 4* Inf: was placed under
my orders for the purpose I could open it in the early part of the
Summer, without any detriment to their health, as the whole route
is a dry pine barren; and also without adding any material burden
to the general expenses of the Quarter Master's department at this



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 857
Station. I have on hand 3 Yoke of oxen which are not now neces-
sary for the public service here, as I can more than supply Teams in
their Stead by the mules purchased last fall for the Survey; and I
calculate upon retaining both oxen & mules in service in any event,
unless otherwise ordered, as they will be indispensably necessary in
working upon the road to St. Augustine, and it is difficult to purchase
well-broke oxen & mules. I estimate the expense of opening this
Road at $.2130,—for Extra pay to Soldiers, and the transportation
of provisions & forage; and $.300 for the purchase of two waggons.
The cost of the forage could hardly be considered as an extra expense,
as it must be provided for the public cattle if unemployed; and I
should use them for the principal part of the transportation and other
work on the Road.”—
I have the honor to be Sir, with, perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Servº
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q M*
To/BRIG: Gen: THo" S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. Army, Washington
City D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt D. E. Burch Pensacola—7 Mar 1824 Road from
Pensacola to Fort Mitchell—1 April 1824
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF EAST
FLORIDA
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla.:DS]
[Referred March 8, 1824]
To the Congress of the United States, the memorial of the subscribers
sheweth, that before the cession of Florida to the United States, the
Indians within the limits of the Territory, too numerous and powerful
to be kept in restraint by the weak government of Sº Augustine,
were in the constant habit of stealing, or enticing away the slaves
of the people of Florida, as well as those of the adjacent states; The
negroes, once arrived within the Indian boundary, were either made
slaves of, by the Indians or admitted to roam at large as free persons;
and in this situation were many fugitives from your memorialists,
at the cession in 1821. Your memorialists when that event took
place, when they were admitted to the protection of the laws of a
powerful and wise government, flattered themselves, that their
property would no longer be with held from, but the Indians would be
compelled to surrender to their proper owners the runaway negroes
among them—As yet however the hope of your memorialists has not
been realized—Application was made to the commissioners appointed
to treat with the Florida Indians, to provide for the restoration of
slaves among them, by treaty, but for some cause unknown to your
"Answered post, p. 924. See also post, p. 902.



858 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
memorialists the Commissioners refused to introduce any provision
for them into the treaty—They then applied to Co" Humphreys,
the Agent for Florida Indians, but he also declined any interference—
Your memorialists therefore relying upon the justice of the Gov" beg
leave to call the attention of Congress to their situation, and pray
that a special Tribunal may be created to decide between them and
the Indians, or that they may be releived in any other way that
Congress may deem expedient—and your memorialists as in duty
bound will ever pray.
Names
Joseph S. Sanchez for himself and
as agent for Francis R Sanchez
& John M. Sanchez
Sam" Cook
Emanuel W. Ormond
John A. Cavedo for B. de Castro y
Ferrer—
J, A, Coffee agent for the Est. of
Wm. Lanes
Geo Fleming
Edward R Gibson having no claim,
but convinced of the justice of
the claims of the memorialists
Gamaliel Darling
Daniel Hurlbert
Joseph M. Sanchez for himself and
as agent for Fran” P Sanchez
John Geiger
W* Levingston
J. Whalton
Henry Ayers
W Canuet
Manuel Gianople
James Barton
Francies Marren
Joseph Pasety
Berdo S. Sanchez
John Robinson
Reuben Loring
Jose Ximenez
Pawl Meistry
Hugh Rouley
Jose Papy
Thomas Suarez
D: Fleischman
Names
Emanuel W. Ormond Ag' for John
Addison Esq
Domingo Cercopoly
Robert Rowley
B. Storrs
Phillip Dewees
Samuel Northrop
J, D, Hart
Joel Jennings
Andrew Burgevin, having no
claims but convinced of the
justice of the claims
Levoritt. H. Coe having Claims
Tho. H. Penn.
Eusebio M.” Cromer
G. W. Perpall
P Menard
Wm Sudur
Wm. Brown
Rich" Murray
John Y. Garey
Daniel S Gardiner
Joseph Delespine
John B. Strong—
Ede Van Evour
A. Buyck Has claims
Bartolome Solana
Francis Gué
Feodoro Climguebie
Robt. Mickler
W. T. Hall
M E Levy
B. Segui
f. J. fatio for F. P. Fatio & Sophia
Fleming



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 859
[Endorsed] Florida Petition of Sundry inhabitants of East Florida—
Praying that a tribunal may be establish by Congress to determine
the right to certain Negroes claimed by the Indians March 8–
1824 Refº to Commº" on Indian Affairs Mar. 9. 1824 Refº to Committee
on the Judiciary Mar. 16. 1824 Ref" to the Secretary of War Sec
War Call 31 Ind Aff 7"
DELEGATE CALL TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
WASHINGTON City 8* March 1824
SIR Permit me to recommend to your attention the following
Gentlemen to compose the Legislative Council of Florida. In order
that every part of the Territory may be represented and that the
Council may possess the necessary local information to provide for
the wants of the people I have thought proper to select the members
from persons residing in the different Counties of the Territory
From the County of Monroe James Gadsden
From the County of Sº Johns Joseph M. Hernandez Peter
Mitchell William R. Reynolds
From the County of Duval John L. Dogget Abram Bellamy
From Gadsden County Johnathan Robinson
From the County of Jackson Thomas Russ James Bright
From Escambia County John de la Rua Benjamin D Wright
Samuel Fry Joseph Noriago
In making the above selection I have ben governed by a desire
to procure for the Territory the services of its most intelligent and
virtuous inhabitants.”
I have the honour to be Very Respectfully Your Obt Ser'
R K CALL
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
[Addressed] The President of the United States Washington City
[Endorsed] 8 March 1824. Call Gen. Recommends the Legislative
Council for Florida. James Gadsen and others. Legislative Council
Florid: Richard Compton also recommended by General Call.
* House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 298, 301, 319.
* See post, p. 913.



860 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
JUDGE BRACKENRIDGE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, xI:ALS)
PENSACOLA March 10th 1824
SIR-In the newspaper published at this place and notoriously under
the direction or control of M" Steel the district attorney of West
Florida, there is a pargraph which purports to be a report of some pro-
ceedings in the Superior Court of which I am the judge. It is calculated
to produce a very unfavorable impression against me in the minds of
those who are unacquainted with the facts. I am represented as
having pocketted some presentments of a publick nature made by the
Grand Jury and refusing to place them on the records of the court.
Feeling conscious of my innocence, I should not have troubled you
with the matter, as I am satisfied you must have been already much
importuned by the petty dissentions which have unfortunately pre-
vailed here, but that Mr Steel, has, I, understand, circulated a report
that the presentments thus said to have been withheld by me, form
the groundwork of charges against him on account of his official con-
duct. Under these circumstances I consider it my duty to give an
explanation.
From the moment M* Steel commenced his official carreer at this
place, he unfortunately gave much dissatisfaction to almost every one
in any way connected with him. It is impossible for me to give an
account of his strange, and unaccountable deportment. I possess
neither inclination, nor skill to trace the picture; suffice it say, that in
spight of every disposition to be indulgent to him, first on the score of
his being a stranger, and next as holding a respectable commission, it
became my duty to reprimand him at almost every moment, and at
length with some severty in the case of Reily. In this case, after
urging his motions in a most unbecoming manner, when I decided
against him verbally, he insisted upon my reducing my decision to
writing; and in complying with this request, I took occasion to express
my disapprobation of his conduct, in the hope that it would produce a
salutary effect; and on this occasion, having said that he meant no
disrespect to the court or to the Grand Jury, I observed, that if that
were the case, I should not give my opinion to the Clerk to be filed with
the papers in the cause; but he declined observing that he wished to
address something in writing. His refusal to accept of this offer to
consign the matter to oblivion, by striking out of my opinion the part
of it which censured him, satisfied me that his temper was perverse
and obstinate. I of course declined receiving anything from him
writing; and greatly to my astonishment, I afterwards saw in the
newspaper, a paper which purported to be one that had been com-
municated to me, containing a most unfair account of the preceeding
transaction, at the same time reflecting upon the conduct of the Grand



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 861
Jury, and of a Mº Williams a member of the bar,” to all of whom, as
well as to myself, he was an entire stranger. From that time, until
the last September court, publications frequently appeared, in which
the conduct of many of the most respectable persons was implicated.
These were well known to be the productions of M* Steel. With the
exception of a very small number of persons, the community was much
displeased, and when the Grand Jury, at the last mentioned term came
into court and were asked whether they had any further business, and
answering in the negative, were about to be discharged, they observed
that they had still something before them of a general nature. After
having retired about an hour, they returned, and the forman presented
me sealed paper with my address, and opening it I found it consisted
of something like an address to me, of a complimentary character, and
a vindication of the former Grand Jury and myself from the newspaper
publications before mentioned. Mº Steel ensisted, in a very rude and
indecorous manner, upon seing the paper—I stated to him that it had
nothing to do with his official duties, and when he ensisted again, in
the afternoon upon my delivering the paper to him, I stated to him
what it contained, and told him that in the score of delicacy, if for no
other reason, it did not become me to give publicity to such a document
he still ensisted, when the explanation ought to have satisfied any one,
and nothing was left to me but to punish him for his improper conduct,
or to order him peremptorily to be silent. I chose the latter, partic-
ularly as he was then in a situation, in which unfortunately, he has
been too often seen, and which did not allow him that calm exercise
of discretion which he might possess on other occasions. I most unfair
account of the transaction is contained in the pretended report, to
which I have alluded in the commencement of this letter, which has
only appeared six months after it took place, and when it might have
been supposed that the presentment, was thrown away by me or lost.
But it remained in my possession, and very reluctantly I have been
compelled in my own defense to publish it. At the time, I spoke to
the forman and some of the Grand Jury individually, and told them I
disapproved of it, and desired that it might not be published, as it
would do more harm than good. Besides it might very naturally be
said that I had been instrumetal in procuring such a paper, to sustain
myself against those who were displeased by my conduct. Indeed
when the document shall be exhited, the reasons for the course I
pursued will suggest themselves most obviously.
I have no intention to add any weight to the complaints made
against M* Steel by individuals. I have nothing to do with them.
What I have done has been to enclose the letters, or representations
of M" Scott, to me as the Judge of the Superior Court; * and to add
77 John Lee Williams.
* Not present. See infra.



862 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
my opinion respecting the official conduct of M* Steel, and his want
of capacity. This opinion has been confirmed by every thing which
has come under my observation since. With the motives of Mº Scott
at the time I had nothing to do. Mº Scott had been his client, and
very shortly before this they had quarrelled about the compensation
demanded by M. Steel for his services; and a suit was instututed
before me, but dismissed. I viewed M. Scott merely as the agent of
the government, as the deputy collector, and the fact which he stated
in his communication alone induced me to notice it. I consider it
due to truth to say, and I hope the observation may not be deemed
improper, the conduct of neither of these persons has been such as to
receive the esteem of the community in which they live; and in my
own opinion the Attorney is not the worst man of the two, for, very
often I am unable to find a motive even in the most mischeveus and
vexatious of his acts, but rather some strange calenture of the intellect.
I am informed that M* Steel has ascribed his misfortunes here, in
part to some supposed enmity entertained by me against him. Such
a feeling I disclaim, the imputation has even induced me to err by
extending to him on many occasions, an indulgence which under other
circumstances, would be scarcely warranted. A county court was
lately held by Judge Bowie, in which according to the territorial law,
M" Steel is also prosecutor, and his conduct was much more severely
censured by that judge, than it ever had been by me. This was a
common remark. The existence of unfriendly feelings on my part
towards him, is certainly, in itself highly improbable unless excited
by something offensive in his own conduct. But this will not account
for his variance with so many individuals upon so many occasions,
and I am informed that in Georgia where he formerly resided, his
situation was no less unfortunate than it has been here. I could feel
for him, if I could but see him feel for himself; and I really feel on
account of his family and connections who are highly respectable,
and who I fear are unhappily doomed to see a most lamentable
termination to the carreer of this young man.”
I am, Sir, with sentiments of respect Your most obed S'
H: M.: BRACKENRIDGE
HON: J. Q. ADAMS Sec. of State U. S.–
[Endorsed] Brackenridge H. M. Pensacola 10 March 1824 Rec"1
April Charges by Mº Steel.
”See post, p. 864.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 863
HENRY DE GRAND-PRE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, xI:LS)
PENSACOLA 10* March 1824.
SIR, But a short interval has elapsed since I had the honor of
addressing you in relation to the Conduct of the District Attorney of
West Florida.” Since that time for the same subject matter, after
three successive attempts to indict me, before three different Grand
Juries for interfering to part combattants, he had me again arrested
and preferred two other Bills against the Young Gentlemen and
myself, which as to me were again returned “not found,” and against
them returned into Court with several blanks, which the Attorney
afterwards illegally filled up without permission of the Grand Jury
or Court, for which he has been taken up, examined and committed
for trial at the next Term of the Court for falsifying the Record.
These indictments were again quashed for informality by the County
Court. I now enclose Your Excellency several Affidavits going to
support the charges heretofore forwarded, and a number of others.
It may be proper to remark, that however gross or improper may be
the conduct of an Officer, the Community unless outraged in the
extreme feel reluctant in preferring charges or giving affidavits. It is
stated in the Newspaper here, that the charges are not sanctioned by
the Community: this is a direct falsehood, and it is proper to remark
that this Paper has been in the hands of M* Steele, or under his
controul and in which he has endeavoured to injure the best men in
the Country by the grossest misrepresentations of facts, until the
Community became so indignant as to prostrate it. I again refer
Your Excellency to the papers in your possession and to the accom-
panying Documents from the most respectable men in this Country
and to submit them to the high consideration of His Excellency the
President of the United States.” I have to offer an apology for
calling your attention to matters so insignificant, but the repeated
improprieties and outrages of an Officer so disgraceful to himself and
the Government, have imperiously prompted me so to do. His
conduct throughout has been marked by so many eccentricities and
improprieties, that the most soberminded and charitably disposed
have come to the conclusion, that his reason was impaired, while
others of acuter discernment, without impeaching this opinion, have
gone into a closer analysis, and found that malignity was the dis-
tinguishing trait of his Character. Be this as it may, the effects have
been equally deleterious.”
80 Not found.
* These are affidavits by John Lee Williams, Robert Breen, Robert Mitchell,
and Louis de Williers.
* Another communication from de Grand Pré, dated Mar. 18, 1824, is in
NA(SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, XI). See post, pp. 910, 912, 951.



864 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I have the honor to be with the highest respect Sir Your most
Obedient Humble Servant
HENRY DE GRAND-PRé
THE HONB” JoHN QUINCY ADAMS Principal Secretary of State &" &"
[Endorsed] Grand Pré, Henry de Pensacola 10 March 1824 Rec"
1 April Charges against M* Steele
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, xI:ALS)
US Attorneys office, WEST FLORIDA 12* March 1824–
SIR By the mail of the preceding week " I had the honor to inform
you that I had received a communication from Gen Call the Delegate
to Congress from this Territory which apprised me of the fact of
several charges having been preferred at the Department of State,
against me for my official conduct,” & I then stated that I would
endeavor to forward a proper despatch on the subject by the succeeding
mail.” I proceed Sir to perform that duty with the hope that its
result may prove to the Government not only that I am undeserving
such an attack upon me as that which has been essayed, but that my
destruction has been wantonly attempted by a combination of persons,
some of whom, (if the suppositions of the publick here as to the
individuals be correct) should have been by their stations, if not
feelings far, far aloof from such a proceeding.—That the attempt has
begun & progressed in the most extreme malice is here well known
by my most respectable fellow citizens & that the wish for my removal
exists only in the bosoms of a few illiberal designing interested or
unprincipled men (within the limits of this city) I may with perfect
safety declare to be the truth of the matter.—The single fact that until
the charges were heard of from Washington, no respectable, impartial
or independent citizen here knew of the charges or the application for
my removal, that the publick were totally ignorant of the attempt
must alone stamp the application with a most suspicious aspect, I
trust Sir that the time has not yet arrived or ever will come when the
secret machinations of a few invidious, illiberal or unjust men, (whether
citizens or officers) can in the United States effected the removal of an
officer who has sought to discharge his duty with stern impartiality,
& who possesses the confidence of the worthier part of the community.
This last phrase Sir it is conceded, (as being spoken of myself) were
inexcusable in any man save one upon his defence and thus wantonly
& Mar. 5, 1824, NA (SD, Terr. Papers, Fla., XI).
84 Not found.
85 The substance of the above letter was communicated to Del. Call on the same
date.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 865
assailed & who has been gratified by the cordial assurances of many of
his fellow citizens to the above effect. I shall endeavor Sir so far as
my ignorance of my individual assailants at Washington & the vague
nature of some of the charges will permit, to make such an exposition
of the incidents of my official career as may be satisfactory & as may
be (what I trust it will appear) a sufficient vindication. A few
remarks Sir by way of explanation are necessary ere I advert specially
to the points with which the Delegate has possessed me. On my
arrival at this place in the early part of the last year, I found upon
observing the state of society that the mass of the population of this
city & its neighborhood, (being French & Spanish) & of those not
many of the higher order) entertained all those crude indefinite
notions of American laws, and institutions, which characterized the
people of Louisiana upon its first acquisition by the U States. Seldom
interfered with by the Spanish government for any, save political
offences, or if noticed received an award of summary (& not often
severe) justice by the mandate of a Governor or escaping with im-
punity the denunciations of their laws through the connivance of
officers; the change of the government was to them an immense one
as to the laws. In consequence (as might have been anticipated)
when an offender was arrested and with all the deliberation known to
our laws (to a stranger so unpleasing, unusual, & so apparently
unnecessary, was held to answer for an offence—which might have
been before deemed venial, or have been readily compounded, it was
regarded as oppression, & the mass of the foreign or rather the adopted
population considered themselves aggrieved individually as well as
collectively. This state of things rendered the officer of the law who
was the necessary medium of its operation almost inevitably unpopular
with those who from their education or the want of it, comprehended
not his duties or who by their defaults had subjected themselves to
prosecutions.—Again Sir the depredations committed upon the publick
domain by the destruction of its timber made it necessary for the
Attorney to take some active measures by the seizure of a vessel and
cargo in one instance, & the prosecutions of trespassers in person in
another, which added to the former feeling among that portion of
the community who had ere this proceeded without hindrance in their
destruction of the publick property. Again as to the selections of
Grand Juries by the Marshal from the only two classes from which he
thought proper to obtain them—First those of the city, adopted citi-
zens of the Union, foreigners by birth, education & feeling, in almost
every instance, or on the other hand from the class of population
located upon the abandoned Spanish grants, or the unsurveyed publick
lands in the upper parts of the County in which this City stands.-
The former, unfitted by the prejudices of education, & the latter (the
usual class of settlers on publick lands) having (with scarcely an excep-
301867–57–56



866 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
tion) never had the honor to serve upon a Grand Inquest in the States
of the Union from which they had migrated, and being alike unac-
quainted with the duties of a Grand Juror, or the laws by which those
bodies are governed. Among both these classes however, were a few
respectable impartial, intellegent Americans, & adopted citizens who
were proper Jurors, who yet were so seldom summoned & then in so
small a number that their weight was never felt in that body & this
result proceeding from the neglect of the Marshall to summon from the
different parts of the District, as prescribed by law, so as to secure
impartial proceedings, but taken to suit his convenience from the
particular county of his residence, & sometimes from the Town of
Pensacola itself, as for instance the Grand Jury at the May Term 1823
of the US Sup' Court for W Florida (of which body John Innerarity
was appointed the Foreman by the Court) which Jury was composed
of citizens or persons from within the limits of the city of Pensacola,
with one individual exception; and then the expression of a Grand
Jury thus selected, is attempted to be passed upon the publick, and
the Government as a Grand Jury of the District of West Florida
speaking the language of the hearts of the people of that District : a
course which cannot but excite great surprise. Last but not least Sir
in addition to the general causes of which I have spoken, & which
would have affected any individual holding the office of US Attorney
for this District, there was yet another cause which of itself might well
have produced a most harsh feeling upon the publick mind in relation
to the present incumbent of that office, upon whom the before named
general influences were acting. This Sir was nothing more or less
than the settled and determined hostility of the highest Judicial officer
in the District, the Judge of the highest Court in which that incumbent
acted as prosecutor, & this enmity encountered upon all occasions in
court, & out of court, originating without cause & progressing without
reason, except indeed sufficient reason were found in the opposition
made (in discharge of his duty) by that officer to the decisions of that
Judge, in cases where they were deemed not to be supported by the
laws. With this unqualified & decided censure of a high officer of the
Bench, it would not therefore have been a matter to excite surprise, if
the publick disapprobation were indeed lavishly bestowed upon the
US Attorney, but even with all these operating causes in aid, the
object has not been attained, & the prejudices existing against the
Attorney exist (happily) only in this city, & among a comparative few,
& the Attorney appeals with confidence to the feelings existing among
the most respectable Americans of the country, as well as the more
enlightened & worthy of the adopted citizens to prove the approbation
and respect in which he stands with the community. If he could have
condescended to solicit from the Grand Jury at the late November



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 867
Term their presentment in favor of his official conduct, asserting their
belief of his uprightness & integrity of official deportment, it would
have been readily procured by him, & have enabled him to thwart the
secret designs of his secret enemies, who succeeded by positive mis-
representation to deceive that Grand Jury into the finding of a
presentment which was entirely groundless, & which yet was never
for a moment intended by that body to indicate an ill opinion of the
general conduct or character of the Attorney.-Yet Sir in reference to
this last fact, it is not intended in this place, to enter into a series of
elaborate proofs on this occasion, to establish the position that the
present Attorney of the U States for West Florida, is a temperate,
moral, or virtuous man and not wholly (MS. illegible]. If the represen-
tations of nearly all the Senatorial & Representative Members of Con-
gress from two States New Jersey & Georgia, of the highest Judiciary
officers, and nearly all the Legislative Body of the latter State, together
with the special expressions of confidence in him made by some, nay
numbers of the most worthy & distinguished among the citizens of
that State, after an acquaintance of years; if all these testimonials
(which it is presumed are to be found in the archives of the Department
of State of the US) have been insufficient to establish the positions
taken in the said documents it would seem the height of folly to seek
on this occasion the evidence of a few gentlemen here by whom the
Atty has been known for a few months. And indeed Sir upon reflec-
tion it becomes to the writer a matter of surprise, when considering
his official course in Florida, that with the influence of the Judge and
other official gentlemen, (exerted upon all occasions), added to his
uniform strictness with offenders which have produced such high
prejudices with a particular class; it is a matter of surprise that (with
these conjoined causes moving), a presentment of a Grand Jury has
not been obtained against the publick Attorney which might vie in
mildness & justice with the opinion of the court in the case of Reilly.
I trust Sir I shall be excused for this prolixity of prefatory remark,
since it became necessary in order that the President should fully
understand the proceedings hereafter alluded to in this defence.—
To assume then the order adopted by Genl Call in his communica-
tion to me, I will in the first place, remark Sir on the case of the Thos
Shields for a violation of the laws of the U States regulating the trans-
portation of slaves.—In this case upon the application of the collector
Mr Scott, to request me to proceed on the part of the U States, I had
not then, nor have ever intended, to express the idea that in cases
of pecuniary forfeitures under a statute, where qui tam actions * are
given (as in the case in question) that the U States could not proceed
** A statutory action brought by an informer to recover a penalty for infraction
of the law.



868 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
alone for the penalty, by an information filed in the usual way; I
intended not so to express myself in answer to the collector's note
tho' I find that the haste with which that answer was written (by
casualty) led me into a style of looseness of phrase & general expres-
sion which may very fairly bear such a construction. The intended
meaning of the doubt therein expressed whether the Coll' or rather
“Attorney could sue officially” was merely under the existing circum-
stances of that case which had been fully understood by the collector
& myself in conference that morning, but for which my note would
note would not have been so little explicit.—The state of facts under-
stood between the Collector—& myself was firstly that no offence
had been intended, if one had really been committed, secondly that
it was made fully to appear to us or at all events to the Attorney &
was afterwards fully shewn to the Coll" by the testimony of Mr
Davison whose affidavit is transmitted (Document No 1) that the
Inspector of the Customs had actually given verbal permission to
land the negros, & that they had been regularly cleared from New
Orleans, the manifest and permits there being full & regular, & that
the slaves were & had been from the period of their landing under
the verbal permit aforesaid, in readiness to attend the Collector & to
comply with the law formally, which he however declined. Under
all these circumstances, believing that no offence whatever was com-
mitted, and knowing that a qui tam action could be filed in the case
by any other person equally well as by himself—the Attorney deemed
it competent for him to exercise a legal discretion in declining to take
an official proceeding in behalf of the U States alone, in a case where
he believed the spirit of the law had been complied with. The
Attorney deemed it at all events quite competent for him (“without
seeking to assume the judicial garb”) to decline taking such official
proceeding in a case, in its nature so highly penal, until some legal
evidence of the commission of the offence was before him by affidavit
&c, which however was never offered in the case. It was believed
that the mere official notice of any functionary (however respectable)
was not a sufficient ground for the procedure under the circum-
stances.—The state of facts above recited (& which but for a full
conversation between the Coll' & Attorney which had just preceded)
would have appeared in the note of the Coll" & Attorney—present
the case simply thus that as Attorney of the U States he intended
to be understood to declare that he declined filing an information
in the particular case in question for the U States alone, & under the
special circumstances, until evidence laid before him, should have made
it an imperious duty. Perhaps however the opinion was incorrect &
that the official note of the collector was sufficient to compel or justify
the taking an official procedure; if so I must regret the error but trust



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 869
that a wrong apprehension of my discretionary power to the extent
spoken of in the filing prosecutions of this nature, may not be consid-
ered as an overwhelming fault. I must ask here to be permitted
to remark that if every official suggestion made to me by an officer—
stating the commission of an offence shall justify my official act in
the institution of suits of this nature, I should from the not unfre-
quent intimations of this kind (had I always acted upon them) have
produced against myself a charge of official tyranny vastly more well
grounded than the one of this nature already preferred. As respects
the execrable traffic which the law was intended to prevent I
trust that as an American I need hardly say that no man feels more
disposed to witness its extinction & aid in that object—Next Sir
as to the Judge's “Opinion” in the case of the U S vs Riley, I beg
leave to refer to the affidavit (Document N° 2) of Co' William Barnett,
in time past a Member of Congress from the State of Georgia & one
of the leading republicans of his day in that State, a man of Roman
firmness and more than Roman virtue.—The affidavit proves dis-
tinctly that ere the Attorney had been in the Territory one short
month (having arrived in April) and before his becoming more than
passingly acquainted with Judge Brackenridge or had appeared in
his court as a publick officer that his hostility (which I was to feel so
heavily) had commenced & in a way too the most ungenerous &
cruel, & that it still exists bitterly (as the enclosed affidavit (Nº 3
with Nº 13 in contrast) will shew) is here well understood. That this
enmity has been increased by my earnest opposition to many of the
decisions of the Judge illegal as the one now forwarded (par exemple)
is more than probable, but the manner of that opposition has been
ever guided by principles of law and of courtesy,” and has never fur-
nished him with the shadow of excuse. As to the opinion of the Court
I can only say that it was pronounced in high passion, and appeared
to be intended as a declamation at the time, since the Judge upon
the Protest entered by the U. S. Attorney as to the Statement of
facts, and the most unmerited abuse contained therein did immediately
offer to withdraw the opinion if the Attorney would make an apology;
to which it was replied that no apology could be given, where there
was nothing to atone for, but that an answer would be filed, or handed
to the Bench, which it was hoped might cause the very unjust opinion
to be withdrawn: the Judge assented, & afterwards received the answer
then refused to read it, or to withdraw the opinion which opinion was
placed on file, tho never upon the Records of the Court. The answer—
the copy of which is herewith transmitted (document N°4) is deposited
in the office of the Clerk—It contains the law as the Attorney believed
it to exist in Florida, there being no restricting Statute as in some of
the States of the Union. The paper (Nº. 5.) containing the Oath,
* From this point this document is written in a hand other than Steele's,



870 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Warrant & recognizance are forwarded & it is only regretted that the
absence of Col. Humphreys prevents my obtaining his affidavit
to prove the facts connected with the immediate delivery of the
opinion, & the offer to receive an apology, & which shall at some future
Period be transmitted.—I may perhaps properly state here that
Reily sold the horses the next day after his discharge, to some Citizens
in the Presence & within in the knowledge of the Judge.—
In regard Sir to my official conduct as the Publick prosecutor
(to which Gen' Call next alludes as a charge) I can only say that I
have in conformity to the best dictates of my Judgment, & convictions
of duty sought to act in all criminal Prosecutions as became a vigilant
officer & a humane Man. If official Zeal & the assurance of my
mind that the Punishment of an offender was important to the Pub-
lick Welfare, has ever carried me too far, it has ever been a mistake in
regard to my duty, & need I add at no time from a wish to oppress
or tyrannize. In the case of the Terry v Grandpre, & the Coulons
(which is the only one mentioned by Gen' Call—I always believed
their conviction & punishment to be important as the riot was an
outrageous one, & excited great Publick indignation at the time.
The enclosed Documents (N* 6 & 7.) being the evidence taken before
the Magistrates upon which I have always proceeded will shew
whether offences of no very trivial character were not committed
by the Parties named, & whether it was not my duty to prosecute
them to conviction. I have never believed because Judge Bracken-
ridge has thought proper to screen the offenders by repeatedly
quashing the bills (as I have always thought illegally) after their
being repeatedly found by Successive Grand Juries.—I have never
beleived I repeat that it was my duty to neglect the Prosecutions
for this reason. The Papers (Nº. 8 & 9.) shew the Indictments
at the May Term against these Parties and the grounds upon which
they were quashed in several of the cases in which it appeared clearly
to the Attorney that the Parties should have been held to answer
and not have been discharged in the Summary mode adopted, which
is contrary clearly to the continued practice of other Courts.-That
I have been lenient to these parties will appear from the enclosed paper
(N° 10.) where an application was made to me after the May Term,
to waive the recognizance to enable them to leave the Country, which
was readily complied with, but as they remained, & were as daring &
ferocious as formerly (being thorough Spaniards in the worst traits
of that people)—I deemed it my duty to proceed against them when
they were again & again protected by the Judge's decisions to quash—
to which movement Col. Barnets affidavit affords the only clue as I
have thought. The only other prominent cases which I recollect
& which can have found their way to Washington to be handled by



F L O RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 871
my Assailants—are those of Mess" Myers & Parmentier. In those
cases I had believed the evidence fully sustained the Bills, & that
they must be found: but the Bills were resent to the Grand Jury
on account of important additional evidence. Altho' I have ever as a
publick officer deemed it competent for me to resend a bill of Indict-
ment to a Grand Jury where I have beleived they clearly mistook
the law—, or the evidence, which has happened in my experience
here more than once or twice & been conceded by the Jury.—when
bills have been resent by request—The paper (Nº 11.) is a brief of
evidence (in the case upon the Civil docket) which was agreed upon
& filed by Counsel & it was upon this & other evidence that the bills
were prefered to the Grand Jury I have desired Alex Scott Esq.
of Georgetown, who has the deposition of the Witnesses in this matter
to have them deposited in the Department of State to be used in the
present investigation. It has always appeared to myself that the only
reasons why the bills were not found was that John Innerarity was
at the head of the Grand Jury & that so many foreigners or rather
adopted Citizens were upon the Jury—As regards this part of the
charges—there being no specification of other cases I conclude by
saying, that I beleived always & now, that I have sought to perform
my duty in every prosecution—as to the Note Signed “J. Innerarity
Foreman) which was handed in by that character to the Court &
which was intended as a return on the Bills or a Note of Conversation
to the Court—it was instantly rejected and a return made upon the
Bills in open Court—The note was then Surreptitiously placed upon
the Records, & on my discovering it during the Term—it was upon
my Motion ordered to be expunged from the records as a paper
which was very improperly placed upon it—which paper as I learn
has been forwarded to Washington as a recorded Presentment.
From the numerous charges against John Innerarity for offences
committed—and his misconduct during the Term inducing the Jury
to refuse Bills without examining a Witness upon them—from his being
& from his having been discharged by his own consent from the Grand
Jury and a new Foreman appointed & sworn & his then resuming
his seat I felt it my duty to move for his discharge as Foreman—
this the Court promptly overruled & he was detained to reject the
Bills against Myers—and to endeavor to effect a presentment against
myself. A Bill for swindling was then upon my Desk against him
which was amply supported & the hostility which he has always
shewn “” has arisen as I am convinced from his being criminally
chargeable in many transactions here. I will hereafter take leave to
say a single word with regard to him & dismiss him.—
As to the last matter mentioned by Genl Call to me as being charged
viz immoral & disorderly conduct, as I before observed I can not think
* Steele's handwriting resumes here.



872 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
it proper or useful to seek out affidavits or certificates to disprove this
one of the numerous falsities attempted with reference to me. With
respect to the alleged Presentments at the November Term of the
Super Court, I refer to the paper (Nº. 12) where the presentments
will be seen in full & also the order to quash, which was taken immedi-
ately upon their being returned into Court & before they could be
considered as having been even filed.—The Court being convinced
from the universal knowledge of the facts here, that even with its
wish to sustain them, it was impossible to do so with safety gave
the order aforesaid.-The facts upon which both the presentments
(in which appears the name of the U S Attorney appears) were as
follows: on the night of the twenty fifth of october last a festive
party was convened at the house of Genl Richard K Call in Pensacola—
when the gentlemen (among whom were the most respectable in W
Florida civil & military) who were present became in the event over
joyous with their libations and perhaps somewhat too resonant in
their notes of mirth & on their return homeward without having
committed the slightest illegal act, but only sonorous in their merri-
ment without molesting thing or creature were assailed by a party
of constables who sought to imprison them, the writer W F Steele
among the number, but considering the measure rather too high
handed they eventually desisted & suffered the gentlemen to proceed
to their houses. A malicious individual of the assailant party who
went before the Grand Jury endeavored to marshal witnesses enough
to induce a presentment, & from the positive swearing upon the occa-
sion, the Grand Jury felt themselves bound to return a presentment,
from a vague & mistaken belief that some offence had been proved
to have been committed. The other Presentment against the Dis-
trict Attorney alone was equally malicious and unfounded as it was
charged upon a converse upon the subject of the previous occurrence,
and was utterly false as will be perceived by the affidavit (Nº. 13) of
M* W Davison herewith sent. And the deponent M* D is a man
as—Genl Jackson & Genl Call will readily establish to be fully relied
upon. It remains only to observe Sir as to this that the Presentments
were never even placed upon the Records of the Court but were
destroyed before they were even lodged in office, & the Clerks certifi-
cate annexed N° 12 shews that these are the only ones ever made in
this Court in which the Attorney's name was incorporated.—
The last paper Sir (Nº. 14) is one of no trivial character, being a
free will offering at the hands of the three Gentlemen who have
signed their names & who have been successively Foreman of the
Grand Juries with whom I have acted. Mr Allen at Septr Special
Term, Mr Lavalle at the Novr Term, and Mº Twitchell at the late
Term of the County Court in February—But four Grand Juries
have been panelled since my residence here & the three last named



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 873
gentlemen were the presiding officers of three of them & the Foreman
of the fourth jury (whose name is not present) I need only add was
John Innerarity.—
And I will beg leave Sir here to refer to the names of Genl Jackson
& Genl Call at Washington to whom I am instructed to refer for the
character of John Innerarity, as well as the standing of Mr Davison
and the worthy Foremen of the Grand Juries already named. I
believe Sir that it may be said with safety that except for my enemy
the Judge (Brackenridge) & his party of guards with John Innerarity
at their head, that there are not beside those ten respectable men in
the District who would even wish for my removal-As to who my
accusers at Washington are, I can only conjecture who they may
be.-If it be Judge Brackenridge—his feelings to me are proved by
Col Barnett &c & in various ways—If it be John Innerarity I need
not say what reliance should be placed upon him.—The Commissioners
Messrs White & Overton have thought proper also to be at open
war with me for opposing the exaction of fees & which it would seem
the Congress of the U States have declared by their bill at this session
to be unjustifiable.—I need only to conclude then by expressing my
hope that official weight may not be added to any think charged
upon me by these same gentlemen.—I refer with confidence to my
fellow citizens for my conduct and standing, and if I am removed,
I shall be able Sir to refer to my bosom for that support which shall
save me from mental prostration.—
I had nearly Sir omitted one other subject which demands my
attention. It is this that at the late Term of the County Court for
this County upon the return of a Bill of Indictment against the
Messrs Coulons, two blanks as to the alias dictus” of the christian
name were filled up by myself as matter of form in the first instance
& as I then & still believe it to be, but afterwards supposing it might
be by cavillers deemed matter of substance was re-submitted to the
Grand Jury. The Bill was however quashed by the Court (Doct
No 15 & 16) upon the ground that the alteration was made after the
bill had been first returned & altho by grand Jury's consent, it avoided
the Bill. The Judge of the Court took much care to express himself
distinctly that the Attorney was perfectly in order to amend if he
believed it form (as the Court would in such case always assent)
and that no censure could be possibly attached to that officer Never-
theless an affidavit was procured to be sworn by one of the young
Spaniards Coulons & a prosecution set on foot against the Attorney
for forging & defacing the Record—a charge and accusation which
may afford an apt illustration of the fiend like malice which marks
the course of a few men here to the Attorney of the US—this last
*7 Otherwise called or known as.



874 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
affair (as is believed) having been arranged to effect at Washington
what they supposed their previous accusations might fail to accom-
plish—ie my removal. The examination was had before the justice
one John L. Williams who made out the process of arrest & who was
prosecuted at the last named Term of the Court for a Perjury, and
who now stands indicted at the last Super Court for two most aggra-
wated assaults and batteries, one of them done upon a publick officer
avowedly for the discharge of his official duty & these offences com-
mitted while the s” Williams was acting in the commission as Justice
of the Peace—The annexed papers (Nº 17, 18, 19) are furnished as
it is understood that the accounts of this wicked affair have been
sent to Washington.—The statements here sent are one of the Foreman
who presided at the Grand Jury when the bill alluded to was found,
the other is that of a Jury man who was with the Foreman & the last
a letter from the Judge of the County who succeeded the Judge who
presided when the bill was quashed.—These papers exhibit mostly
the course of the proceeding but that of the Judge—(Buoy which
will be forwarded next week will be as I presume a most ample
refutation of this villainy—Mr White as the Attorney for the Coulons,
Mr Innerarity as their brother in law and Judge Brackenridge as
their friend appear to the publick here as the movers, but such cir-
cumspection is had in their proceedings in this dangerous matter that
clear proof is not wholly attainable
I conclude Sir with the expression of my hope & almost belief that
in this attempt of my enemies they will have made eventually as says
the Psalmist their own tongue to fall upon themselves”.-I trust
Sir that if I have in my earnestness of defence overlooked that defer-
ence which became me on the occasion or have omitted aught of
that polish of conduct which might have been expected, it will be
ascribed to its true cause, the eagerness of my feelings as an injured
& accused man & not to any intentional omission of that high con-
sideration & regard which I entertain for those I have addressed—
I shall Sir take occasion to forward by the next weeks mail the
statement of the Judge (Buoy) before alluded to, Be pleased Sir
to lay the enclosed papers with this statement before the President
of the United States so soon as may comport with your convenience
and with a perfect satisfaction in believing that the venerated Presi-
dent and his Cabinet will see justice hold her sway in this cause, nor
readily permit to be sacrificed a servant of the publick wantonly, or
without ample reason—
I have the honor to remain With high consideration Very Respect-
fully Your mo obedt Servant—
WILLIAM F STEELE Attorney of the U States & for W Florida
HON” JOHN Q ADAMS Secretary of State, U States &c



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 875
[Enclosure: Pr.]
Report on the Actions of Judge Brackenridge
(September Term, 1823]
For the Floridian.
Law Report.
In the matter of the presentments of the Grand Inquest of the
U. S. District and Sup. Court of W. Florida at September special
term 1823.
This was a motion made by the Attorney of the United States for
W. Florida (W. F. Steele) to place upon the record of the court cer-
tain publick presentments make by the Grand Inquest, which were
returned by that body publickly into court, with a request that they
might be published in the gazette of West Florida entitled “the
Floridian,” but which presentments the Judge of the said court
(H. M. Brackenridge) had received in person and placed in his
pocket, without permitting them to be seen or read—affirming his
right so to do, and asserting them to be private papers and there-
fore entirely under the control of the court.
The Attorney of the United States, after having received repeated
intimations from the Court of its resolve not to permit even an in-
spection of the presentments; and the Court then being about to
adjourn, made the following motion in discharge of his duty, as he
alleged. “The Attorney of the U. States for the District of West
Florida, moves this Honorable Court, that any presentment, return,
official paper or communication, made by the Grand Inquest for the
said District, and brought and returned into Court by the Foreman
of the said Grand Inquest and which may relate and is understood
to relate to the state of the publick prisons in this District, or to any
other matters of publick interest; and of which the said Grand
Inquest have solicited of this Court the publication, be ordered by
the Court to be now inscribed, as usual, upon the records of the Court.”
The Court (H. M. Brackenridge Judge) refused to allow this motion
to be entered, or to hear the authorities which the district Attorney
offered to adduce; (4 Black. Com.—Hawk.-Hale. 1 Chitty's Crim,
Law 110. 121. 162. 216. 220. 320.-6—Am. Dig. Tit. Indictments,
Jury. 2. Wils. Works 365. 6. 439. 440.) or to hear any argument in
support of the motion; refused again to record the presentments or
permit their inspection; affirming again the right to the sole possession
and control of the presentments, & going even so far as to menace
the Attorney with imprisonment or removal from his office in case
he persisted in his application.
The grounds taken the district Attorney were-that the present-
ments of a Grand Inquest upon publick matters, publicly returned



876 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
into court, were publick documents, and when requested to be pub-
lished by that Inquest were to be of course (when placed as usual
upon the record) published by the court in compliance with their
wish; but that at all events no person or power could legally with-
draw them from the archives of the court to which they pertained
as fully as the pleadings of a suit on file. The positions of the Judge
were-that the presentments from having been addressed in an
envelope “to H. M. Brackenridge, Judge &c.” instead of “to the
U. S. District Court &c.” or being as usual without endorsement or
direction, were by means of such direction, boma fide his private
papers, altho' acknowledged to contain presentments on publick
affairs and required by the jury to be published; that the motion for
recording them should therefore, not be heard, and that argument
was inadmissible.
The motion of the Attorney being thus petemptorily overruled,
the court adjourned with the presentments still in the keeping of
the Judge.
[Enclosures: DS)
Affidavit of W. Davison
[No. 1] [March 5, 1824]
W. Davison being duly sworn deposeth & Saith that on or about
the 20" day of July last in the schooner Tom Shields, Forsyth master
from New Orleans, came passenger for the benefit of her health, his
Daughter Ann Maria Hennea with her three infant children & bro"
with her five of her house servants, this deponent further Saith that
on the arrival of the afores"Wessel at Pensacola he this deponent went
on board of her to receive his Daughter, And not finding the Captain
(whoes business had caled him on shore) this deponent applied to
Mº John M*Gregor then present acting as inspector of the Customs,
for permission to land the afores" servants with their Mistress, as
they were much wanted to carry the children to his dwelling, permis-
sion was immediately & politely granted by the s” M*Gregor In-
spector as afores" And this deponent further saith that on hearing
the Captain of the sº Tom Shields censured for permitting the afores"
servants to be thus landed, in accordance with a sense of duty to
him the Cap' he this Deponent immediately call’d upon Mº Scott
Acting Collector and upon W. F. Steele Esq." District Atty & did
explain to them both, the whole of the circumstances under which
these domestics were landed, & further this deponent saith that he
did most earnestly request that no injury might result to the Cap'
that this deponent believed the whole proceedings in landing s”
slaves correct as the consent thereto was fully & freely given by the
s” Inspector then on board the Wessel, that the Slaves were at his
house subject to any examination upon the Manifest then in the
Custom house, & that this was the second summer since the change



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 877
of Government that M** Hennea had Visited Pensacola with the
same family of domestics and return'd with them to New Orleans
in the fall—And that if an error had been committed it was wholy
unintentional.
Pensacola Mar. 5* 1824
W. DAVISON
Sworn to & Subscribed on the same day & date P. ALBA Mayor
Act. J. P.-
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Nº 1 Affidavit—
Schº Tho" Shields—
Affidavit of William Barnett
[No. 2) [March 7, 1824)
TERRITORY OF FLORIDA Escambia C*
Personally appeared before me Thomas J Wyche, one of the duly
appointed & commissioned Justices of the Peace in & for the said
County—Col. William Barnet—who being duly sworn, deposeth &
saith that on or about the [blank] day of May one thousand eight
hundred and twenty three at Pensacola Hon H M Brackenridge Judge
of the U S District & Superior Court in & for the District of West
Florida being in company with the said deponent did enter into &
solicit a conversation with this deponent, & the said deponent did then
& there speak & converse with the said Judge of & concerning William
F Steele U S District Attorney and that the said Judge did then &
there express himself in a manner and with feelings most decidedly
unfriendly & against the said William F. Steele, and on learning that
this deponent wished to employ an attorney in a suit then pending
before the said Judge in said Court did observe, that the only attorney
worthy of being trusted in Pensacola was Joseph M. White or John L.
Williams & the said Judge did then & there speak of him the said
William F. Steele, as a man having no pretensions to legal skill &
talents, & that thereupon this deponent who had then & before that
time employed & retained the said William F. Steele as his advocate &
attorney in the suit then pending before the said Judge as aforesaid
did after the said conversation with the said Judge think & believe it
to be his duty to himself to evade the employment & retainer of the
said William F Steele as his attorney as aforesaid, & did thereupon
induce the said W. F. Steele to withdraw from the said case this de-
ponent believing that his employment of the said W. F. Steele in said
case would be more disserviceable and injurious than otherwise to this
deponent on account of said Judge's expressions
Wm BARNETT LS 87°
Sworn to & subscribed before me this seventh day of March 1824
THOMAS J WYCHE J. P. E. C.
** Locus sigilli.



878 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
I Thomas J Wyche Justice of the Peace do hereby certify that I was
present when the within deposition was made and that the deponent
(being too infirm to draw it up himself readily) requested the affidavit
to be drawn up for him which was done strictly according to the de-
ponents dictation or consent who afterwards heard it read over and
assented thereto when his oath was taken before me
THOMAS J WYCHE J Peace 11 March 1824
[Endorsed] with M Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Affidavit Nº. 2.
Affidavit of Alexander Scott Jr.
[No. 3] [March 12, 1824]
TERRITORY OF FLORIDA Escambia County Ss.
Personally appeared before me Alexander Scott Jº who being duly
sworn declareth & saith that on the 20" day of November 1823—the
Honorable H. M. Breckenridge Judge of the Superior Court of West
Florida invited this deponent to walk with him and thereupon com-
menced a conversation relative to William F. Steele U. S. Attorney
in the course of which he took occasion to advert to the conduct of
said Steele on that morning in Court stating that he would have com-
mitted the said Steele to prison but for his being in a state of Intoxica-
tion from liquor & speaking otherwise in Terms of great disrespect of
said Steele.
ALEX SCOTT Jr
Sworn & Subscribed before me this 12* day March 1824 THOMAS J
WYCHE J. P. E. C.
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Nº 3
Answer by William F. Steele to Motion for Discharge
[No. 4) [No date, 1824]
The United States vs. George Riley
Motion for discharge from Recog”
The attorney of the United States for West Florida, at the Sugges-
tion of the Court (that it's opinion yesterday delivered in this case will
be withdrawn upon a Satisfactory explanation from the Attorney)
cheerfully proceeds to state to the Court what he trusts will induce the
proposed measures. He wishes this step as well in justice to the Court
itself as to the Attorney inasmuch as the misapprehensions of the
intentions of the Attorney have induced the Court to do him extreme
injustice in that opinion. The Attorney of the United States proceeds
to State that in regard to the argument of Mº Williams the defendant's
Counsel on the 19* when his Motion for discharge was first made to
the Court “that the defendant was not taken before a Magistrate for
examination and no recognizance was taken &c”—he could not but
feel surprized when it actually appeared by the papers that the



FL OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 879
defendant was taken before a Magistrate J. L. Williams Esq. the per-
son now his Counsel in Court, and whose duty it was to have taken the
examination if necessary and whose duty it was to have taken a proper
recognizance—and who now stated to the Court that he had drawn it
up himself and taken it in form as it appeared believing the case would
come up before the Court in the shape which it now assumed. With
regard to the papers the Attorney states that he received them from
the Clerk of this Court with whom they had been of file from the day
of the arrest—tho’ the Clerk had omitted to make upon them the usual
endorsement, which omission was unperceived by the Attorney when
he received them from that Officer of the Court and deposited them in
his Desk, as being a species of Court papers to the possession of which
he believed himself entitled as Attorney of the U. States pending the
Term of Court.—
The Court seems to have greatly misapprehended the Attorney of
the United States in Supposing that any detention of the Defendant
was asked or wished for in the first instance other than a Recognizance
in the usual form to appear and answer at the ensuing term of the
Court.—The Attorney of the United States desired only this in the
first place—and believed that the warrant, Oath, & Recognizance were
according to law sufficient to authorize the arrest &c. and to justify
the recognizance of the defendant to the next Term.—That no exam-
ination of Prisoner being expressly required by American Stat. Law,
either of the U. States or the Territory but only incidentally alluded
to the Territorial Law, and which had it even been express could not
here control a proceeding under the U States laws—and by the Eng-
lish Stat. 1 & 2. P & M. and 2 & 3. P. & M. which regulate the English
practice in the matter of examinations—it being only required by
those Statutes in cases of Manslaughter & felony that it was conse-
quently thought to be here unessential: The Attorney beleiving also
that according to Lº Hale—1* & 2" Vol. & 1. Chitty Criminal laws
that the Warrant of this Court might be regularly returnable before a
Justice of the Peace either for Prisoner to be examined—or bound over
to appear at the Court—that the charge must appear to the Court
clearly to be groundless before the Party would be wholly discharged
as the Officer before whom he is brought does not try him but only
judges of the propriety of compelling him to stand his trial—The
Attorney of the United States believed that the warrant was founded
on an oath sufficient according to the Common law—the 4th amend-
ment to the Constitution U.S. and also in conformity with the decision
in 3" Cranch, 448. “that it must be for good cause, with Sufficient
certainty and supported by oath”—and that the obligation entered
into by the party & upon which he was attending at the Court was in
conformity with the law which requires a Recognizance—defining it



880 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
to be an “Obligation of record entered into before a Magistrate duly
authorized for that purpose with condition to appear at the Court &
abide its decision &c. and that admitting the Court did entertain the
opinion suggested by Defendants Counsel, that the obligation taken
was not a sufficient recognizance in this case, still that the Court would
have a right to examine defendant on his appearance in Court—Con-
sidering it sufficient as the first appearance legally under the Warrant,
that Defendant would confess the facts as he had before done out of
Court and that the Court would have felt authorized to receive evi-
dence of the absence of most of the material Witnesses at S*Marks a
distance of 300 Miles & thus perceived the impossibility of a Bill being
sent at this Term before the Grand Jury and also of the propriety of
recognizing the party to the ensuing Term. The Attorney of the
United States with these beliefs and impressions moved a continuance
of the motion before the Court until the morning with the assurance
that law should be produced to shew the propriety of Defendant's
detention meaning thereby only the detention until the perfection of
a recognizance to the next Term (in form and for the reasons the At-
torney had requested of the Court) and the Attorney intended only to
insist upon these grounds for a continuance which in such a case he
had deemed grantable of course—and the intimation to the Court then
made with respect to an information in the case was wholly incidental
and not in the mind or wish of the Attorney the ground in any way for
the continuance asked—The Attorney of the United States says that
on appearing on the morning of the 20th in Court for the U. S. in
opposition to the motion for discharge of the Defendant without
recognizance he had intended to argue the case fully on the part of the
U. States and to have produced the law as before-mentioned had not
the Court overruled him, and that he then believed the Court would
deem it proper to examine the defendant, (then being in Court upon
his recognizance or obligation & not in custody &c.) according to the
Motion made by the Attorney.—The Attorney of the U. States, then,
after the order of discharge moved the Court for the first time that the
Defendant Should be detained in Custody until the Attorney sub-
mitted to the Court his views on the subject of informations and the
propriety of granting or refusing one in the case before the Court.
And here the Attorney of the United States would state that the Court
appears to have greatly misapprehended the Scope of his views, as the
Attorney never intended to express himself or to be understood by
the Court to maintain his right to file an ex Officio information in any
case beyond that one then before the Court “that is to Say” where a
party had been legally arrested, by proper process below, and recog-
nized to appear in this Court and to answer for a misdemeanor—that
he never for a moment intended to be understood to contend for the
full power, of the King's Attorney General in England on the subject



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 881
of informations—that he intended expressly not to be understood (at
that time) to contend for any right to take and keep the Defendant
in Custody—but only to charge him as above when appearing upon
his recognizance—that he was not then or is now aware of any English
law which required the permission of Court to file such information
or made recognizance to prosecute necessary—that he did intend to
say that this proceeding as aforesaid could be taken by him without
leave of the Court, except so far as regarded proceedings to the
arraignment of the Defendant in which last point he may be incorrect
tho' not knowingly. The Attorney of the United States further States,
that the view which he took of this Subject—and the belief of his right
to take this proceeding were derived from a particular examination
of the Constitution & Laws of the United States and American deci-
sions thereupon which were cited in Court by the Attorney. He be-
lieved that was not foreign to the genius & Spirit of our Constitution
& laws under the views which he took as aforesaid and that as this pro-
ceeding was only to be taken by an Officer under the Solemnity of his
Oath and who was appointed & removeable at the will of the President
of the United States it was not an improper or impolitick process.
The Attorney of the United States cited to the Court and relied upon
in support of his opinion that an information might be filed—the fol-
lowing authorities.—
First.—Constitution of the United States, Amendments Article 5.
& Art. 6th
Second—the 20° 21* & 32” Sections of the Act of Congress passed
30° April 1790, entitled “An Act for the punishment of certain crimes
against the United States.” ”—The 3* Section of the Act passed 26*
March 1804 in addition to the aforesaid Act,” and other acts of
Congress also the 4” section of the “Act prohibiting the Slave Trade
passed 3" March 1819 °—passed in conformity to the Constitution.
Third, The decision in the case of the Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts vs. the Inhabitants of Waterborough 5. Mass. T. R. 257 in
which it was held that “it is a general rule all Publick misdemeanors
which may be prosecuted by Indictments may be prosecuted by infor-
mation in behalf of the Commonwealth unless the prosecution be re-
strained by the Statute to Indictment”—and 2 Mass. R. and 4. Dallas.
The Attorney of the U. States thus well supported as he supposed &
believing the authority which he cited to deserve more than a
“moment's attention” argued conscientiously according to his belief
of the Law and his duty, and in justice to himself states that he would
never have been found supporting a position in Court which he could
conceive involved principles either odious or repugnant to our
* 1 Stat. 112–119.
89 2 Stat. 290–291.
90 3 Stat. 532–534.
301867–57 57



882 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
Constitution and laws or revolting to correct principle for which he
trusts he has all the veneration which a Freeman and an American
Lawyer should possess, & as genuine an attachment as even the Hon"
Court itself can entertain, and he is wholly at a loss to what it was
either in his argument or manner which could have drawn down upon
him the decided disapprobation of this Court. The opinion thus
maintained may have been taken up from improper views of the true
construction of the law on this subject and may be incorrect but has
been honestly held and argued upon in such manner as the Attorney
conceived he was entitled to do before the Court in order to submit
the question fully & receive its submission. In regard to the Grand
Jury the attorney states to the Court that he recollects no word,
phrase or expression in his argument which had relation to the Grand
Jury—and consequently had no intention to reflect upon that Body
or cast any imputations upon them—tho' he would now observe that
the Court would be assured that there was some impatience on the
part of the Grand Inquest, if all the correspondence between it and
the Attorney were known to the Court yet as a Body he wishes not
to be understood to take occasion to censure them—the motion
made by the Attorney of the United States to discharge their Foreman
during this Term having been made as the Attorney beleived and still
must believe in conformity with his duty on account of the conduct of
that Officer—The Attorney of the United States takes this opportunity
to disclaim any the Slightest intention of disrespect to the Court in
the argument of this matter and he did not nor does feel conscious of
any phrase or conduct which should have induced the Court to enter-
tain the opinion that the Attorney is capable of acting with disrespect
or indecorum to the Court—and is happy in having his own recollec-
tions of his deportment and language on the occasion confirmed by
the impression produced upon the audiance by several of whom among
the most respectable of the Citizens, he has been assured that they
were thus fully impressed. The Attorney assures the Court that he
understands too well the respect due to the Court and himself ever to
act with deliberate disrespect to its authority.—
Signed WILLIAM F STEELE
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Answer N° 4
Affidavit by Gad Humphreys and accompanying Documents
[No. 5) [May 15, 1823]
U. States of America Terry of Florida District of W. Florida Escambia
County
WEST FLORIDA ss—Personally appeared before me Colonel Gad
Humphreys the duly appointed & commissioned Agent for the Indian
tribes in East and West Florida on the part of the United States, and
being duly sworn, deposeth and saith that he is informed and hath



FLOR I. D A T E R R I TOR Y 883
now recently received information which satisfies him and which he
verily believes has been lately near St Marks in W Florida purchasing
& receiving & bringing out of the Indian Territory several horses,
contrary to a Law of the U. States passed thirtieth of March in the
year of our Lord One thousand eight hundred and two.—And has
been recently vending and delivering to the Indians being near St
Marks in West Florida spiritous liquors contrary to the Laws of the
Congress of the United States in such case made and provided—and
further this Deponent saith not."
G. HUMPHREYS LS Indian Agent
Sworn to and Subscribed before me this 15 day of May 1823 H. M.
Brackenridge L S. Judge. Sup. Ct. West Florida
United States of America.-Dist of W. Florida
To the Marshal of the District of West Florida or any other lawful
officer to execute.
WEST FLORIDA ss—Forasmuch as Colonel Gad Humphreys Indian
Agent &c in the Territory of Florida hath this day made oath and
complaint before me Henry M. Brackenridge Esquire Judge of the
District and Superior Courts of the United States in West Florida—
That George Riley late of West Florida in the said Territory & U.
States—trader &c did lately to wit on the fifth day of May one
thousand eight hundred and twenty three purchase horses from the
Indians or purchase them in the Indian Territory &c and did vend
Spiritous liquors then and there as aforesaid to the Indians contrary
to the Laws of the said U. States—These are therefore to command
you in the name of the United States forthwith to apprehend and
bring before me or any Justice of the Peace the body of the said
George Riley to answer unto the said complaint & to be further dealt
with according to Law. Herein fail not.
Given under my hand and seal this 18 day of May A. D. 1823.−
H. M. BRACKENRIDGE Judge Sup Cº West Florida
Know all men by these presents that we George Riley and Joseph C.
Keyser are held and firmly bound unto William Sebree Marshal of the
District of West Florida in the sum of Six Hundred Dollars to be paid
unto him the said William Sebree Marshal as aforesaid—Now the
Condition of the above obligation is such that whereas a Warrant has
been issued and granted by the Honourable H. M. Brackenridge
against the said George Riley charging him with having purchased
horses of the Indians or in the Indian Territory upon the oath of
Col Gad Humphreys Indian Agent now if the said George Riley shall
appear and surrender himself on tomorrow (Friday) the 16” day of
* A line containing the name of the offender was evidently dropped by the
copyist.



884 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P.A. P. E. R. S.
May 1823 before the Honourable Henry M. Breckenridge Judge of
the Superior Court of West Florida at the Court House in Pensacola
by 9 O'Clock A. M. and then and there abide the decision of said
Court and not depart the Jurisdiction of the same until discharged
by said Court then this recognizance to be void otherwise to in full
force and virtue—Given under our hands and seals this 15* day of
May 1823–
GEORGE REILLY LS
JOS C. KEYSER LS
Sealed and delivered before me this 15" day of May 1823 JOHN
LEE WILLIAMS J. P.
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk's Office, Superior Court.—
I John Miller, Clerk of said Court, do hereby certify that the fore-
going three pages, contain a true and correct copy, of the Affidavit of
Colonel Gad Humphreys Indian Agent, of the Warrant in the Case of
the United States vs George Reilly and of the Bond given by said
Reilly for his appearance at said Court, at the May Term 1823
thereof, now on file in my office
In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the Seal of said Court, at Pensacola this the 10* day
of March A. D. 1824
JNO. MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] with M Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 US vs Riley—
Affidt No. 5
Evidence in Assault Case
|No. 6] [April 9, 1823]
Case of Territory vs Lepine & Raoul Coulons and Henrique Grandpre
Rushton Sworn—said Lepine and Mº Gerrish were fighting, Soon
after Lepine called to his aid Raoul, when both fell on Gerrish, &
threw brick bats at G & after G. entered his own house, he broke the
door with a hammer & threw bricks into the house, either Lepine or
Coulons broke the door.
M" Edgley—Sworn—Saw Gerrish, Lepine & Raoul together, saw
Gerrish strike Lepine and said take that for what passed at the ball
rencounter ensued, when Raoul joined with Lepine agt Gerrish who
retreated into his house, after which both the Coulons broke the door
open, and threw bricks into the House.
M* Finley Sworn—saw Gerrish strike Lepine, a battle ensued when
Raoul joined agt Gerrish, on Gerrish's retreat into his house threw
bricks into the house, after breaking door with a hammer; saw Lepine
draw a sword.
Doc' Brosnaham Sworn—was at the corner talking with Rushton,
said Gerrish requested him to ask Lepine why he struck at the Ball,



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 885
Coulons said some words, when Gerrish struck one of them, fight
ensued, saw Lepine have a Sword in his hand,-believes G. entered
his house, saw both Coulons with hammer and bricks, broke open
Gerrish's door open, believes M* Grandpre attempted to preserve peace.
M* Jerrison Sworn—Saw the two Coulons stop opposite to Gerrish’s
store and said some words & when Gerrish struck Lepine, Scuffle
ensued & both the Coulons joined agt G. saw Grandpre interfere and
thought him disposed to shew foul play, by holding G. while Coulons
struck G.; G. retreated into his house, when Coulons broke the door
open with a hammer, and both of them threw bricks into the house
Mº Champlin—Sworn—was at Edgley store, saw scuffle between
the Coulons and Gerrish, saw Grandprejoin but did not know whether
to part them or join in the scuffle. G. retreated to his house, when
Lepine broke the door open with a hammer, and threw bricks into
the House.— -
Mr Foster & M Keyser. Sworn—latter said that on the night of
the 7” inst at a Ball at Collins when standing up to dance Lepine
attempted to get above G. in the dance, when put his hand before
Lepine, & said he should not go above him, when Lepine struck G.
in the face, G. asked then M K whether he should then resent the
insult. K. said no, not in the Ball room.
Mº Levinas Sworn—Saw Lepine and Gerrish engaged, and Lepine
draw a Sword, G said take away the Sword, saw Grandpre hold G
when Coulons struck G. frequently, Gerrish retreated to his house,
saw Raoul break the door open with a hammer, and at same time
swore that he would kill G in less then 3 hours saw the Coulons before
the battle assemble before G's door—apparently with hostile inten-
tions
Jno May–Sworn saw G. and Coulons engaged in battle, saw both
the Coulons previous to battle, both had sticks, one a sword cane,
J. Allan, Sworn—Champlin came to his store & informed him that
there was a battle, between G and Toulons, went down there & saw
the Toulons throwing bricks at G's. store, Chapman comm" peace,
Lepine demanded what he wanted—Mr Davison told Lepine he was
his prisoner & call’d deponent to assist him when Lepine call'd for
his sword—Coulons indicated disposition to resist.
Mº Piper Sworn—saw Gerrish & Coulons engaged, saw Coulons
strike G saw Col" attempt to strike Gerrish with a brick—Grandpre
attempted to stop Lepine from throwing the brick, but the brick
fell & struck G. on the head
M* Wyman Sworn, Says when he went up to arrest Lepine, Grand-
pre appeared to assist in separating the combatants when witness put
his hand on Grandpre said not to put hand on him—
The stick used by Raoul Coulons is now in possession of the Court.
April 9th 1823.



886 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
The Testimony above stated was taken the date above mentioned
before us.
ROBT MITCHELL
JOHN LEE WILLIAMS
Justices of the peace
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk's Office, United States' District and Superior Court.
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the fore-
going five pages and upwards, contain a true and correct copy of
all the evidence, returned by the Justices in the case of the Territory
of Florida vs Lepine & Raoul Coulons and Henrique Grandpre and
filed in my office.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] the seal of said Court at Pensacola this 5* day of March
A. D. 1824.—
JNO MILLER Clk
In the annexed affidavits of Jerrison and Levinas, where G. is men-
tioned, it was intended to say Gerrish.
PENSACOLA March 5, 1824
ROB" MITCHELL Justice of the Peace.
[Endorsed] The Territory of Florida vs Lepine & Raoul Coulons
and Henrique Grand Pre Copy of evidence. Nº 6 with M Steele's
letter of 12 March 1824
Affidavit of Paul H. Gerrish
[No. 7] [April 15, 1823]
Territory of Florida Escambia County
Personally came before Me John La Rua Mayor of the City of
Pensacola, being also a Justice of the Peace—Paul H. Gerrish who
being duly sworn saith that on the day of the 9th ins' he observed
Lepine Coulon & Raoul Coulon and Henry Grandpre passing his
Store several times one of them apparently armed & menacing in
their deportment that soon after he walked along the Street near the
house of Sebastian Barrios in Palafax Street where at a distance he
observed Grandpre & Lepine Coulon–that after a brief period he
asked a Bystander to enquire of Lepine Coulon why he had struck
him (Gerrish) at the Ball a few days before—he declined to enquire
Gerrish then asked Grandpres to ask the question, the reply of
Coulon was that he had struck him once, and should strike him again
—Coulon then immediately prepared to draw his Sword and upon his
getting it some way out this deponent seized him to prevent it, a
scuffle ensued in which several attempts were mady by Coulon to
stab this Deponent, and during the struggle they fell, while down
the attempts to stab him were repeated by Coulon and Grandpre



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 887
laid hold of him—and after he had risen Said Grandpre struck this
deponent several times and laid hold of his Throat said Lepine ad-
vancing again with his Sword & when that was taken from him threw
a Brick bat and struck this deponent on the head—at this time the
other Coulon, by name Raoul Coulon advanced with brick bats and
threw them violently without striking this deponent—deponent then
seized him & while he held him Grandpres laid hold of him again
and the younger Raoul Coulon then threw two Brick bats and struck
deponent on the head—contest then waxed so hot that deponent
retreated to his house—when the Coulons assailed the House broke
the door and the Windows and this deponent verily believes that the
intent of the said Lepine & Raoul Coulon & the said Grandpres was
to take the life of this deponent, and further this deponent saith not.
(Signed) P. H. GERRISH L. S.
Taken, sworn & Subscribed before me as Mayor & Justice of the
Peace at and for Pensacola this 15th day of April 1823.−(Sign'd)
J" DE LA RUA
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk’s Office, Superior Court
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the fore-
going two pages contain a true and correct copy of the affidavit of
P. H. Gerrish, taken before John de La Rua Esquire late Mayor of
the City of Pensacola, acting as Justice of the Peace, and filed in my
office in the case of the Territory of Florida vs Lepine & Raoul Coulons.
In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the seal of said Court at Pensacola this the 10"
day of March A. D. 1824–
JNO. MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12” March 1824 Nº. 7
Indictment for Riot
[No. 8] [May Term, 1823]
U. States of America Territory of Florida District of West Florida
U.S Dist& Superior Court W F. May Term 1823
WEST FLORIDA ss The Grand Jurors sworn chosen and selected in &
for the body of the District of West Florida in the name and behalf
of the said United States & Territory to wit [blank] foreman [blank]
upon their oath do present and say that Lepine Coulons late of
Pensacola in the said District with force and arms on the seventh day
of April A D One Thousand eight Hundred and twenty three at
Pensacola aforesaid at the house of one Antoine Collins and within the
jurisdiction of this Court in and upon one Paul H Gerrish in the
peace of God & the said United States and Territory then and there
being an assault did make and him the said Paul did then and there



888 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
violently wound, assault, beat and ill treat & then and there with the
hand of his right arm clenched did violently beat strike in the face
of the said Gerrish and other wrongs to the said Gerrish then and there
did to the great damage of him the said Gerrish to the evil example of
all others in like cases offending, contrary to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided and against the peace of the said U.
States and Territory, the Government and dignity of the same.
WILLIAM F. STEELE U. S. Dist Atty & Terry Atty
CHA* C KEYSER Prosecutor
Witnesses JOHN B. FOSTER CHA" C. KEYSER—
[Endorsed) U. S. District & Sup' Courts West Florida May Term
1823. The Territory &c vs Lepine Coulons Ind' Asst & Batty True
Bill F. N. Nisbet Foreman quashed by order Court 13" May 1823
Jno Miller Clk William F. Steele US. Atty &c C. C. Keyser Pros'
The Territory vs Raoul & Lepine Coulons alias Louis & Manuel de
Williers—et al.
The defendants move the Court to quash the indictment herein
1* Because it was admitted that the Atto of the U States, had inserted
their names Louis and Manuel, by permission of the Grand Jury
after the Bill was returned into Court
2* Their is no addition to their names as a discriptio personaeum
3° the Indictment does not shew that the offence charged is a Riot
WHITE P D
WF STEELE Atty for Terry
The Territory &c vs Raoul Coulons & Lepine Coulons alias Luis de
Williers & Manuel de Villiers et al Riot
Motion to quash Ind” opposed by the Attorney for the Territory
upon the following grounds
1* Because the words Louis & Manuel inserted afterwards may be
considered surplusage & the Indictment so good without them
2" That additions are unnessary being abolished by act of the Leg"
Council and the laws of the Country
3"That the offence is well charged in the Indictment as a Riot
WILLIAM F STEELE Atty for the Territory &c
J M WHITE Atty for Defts
United States of America Territory of Florida District of West Florida
U. S. Dist: & Supº Court W. F. Nov 1 1823
WEST FLORIDA ss The Grand Jurors sworn chosen & Selected in and
for the body of the District of West Florida in the name and behalf
of the said United States & Territory aforesaid to wit Eugenio Lavalle
Foreman, Sam' Patterson, Clark Jackson, Wm H. M*Curdy, John
Matthews, Robert Manning, Jeptha Gilbert, Richard Eddins, Isaac
Jenwright, Peter Wilkison, And" P. Simpson, John S. Moore, Elijah



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 889
M“Curdy, Wm M*Woy, Henry Ahrens, John Jerrison Junº Francisco
Moreno and David Rowland upon their oath do present and say That
Lepine Coulons alias Lepine De Williers late of Pensacola in said
District Cadet in the Army of his Most Catholick Majesty the King
of Spain &c Raoul Coulons alias Raoul De Williers late of Pensacola
in said District Cadet as aforesaid and Henrique Grand Pre late of
Pensacola in said District, citizen, together with divers other evil
disposed persons to the Jurors aforesaid at present unknown on the
ninth day of April in the year of our Lord One thousand eight hundred
and twenty three with force and Arms at Pensacola in said District,
in the Public Street or Square, & within the Jurisdiction of this Court
unlawfully, riotously and tumultuously did assemble together to the
great disturbance of the Publick peace of the said U. States & Territory
then & there being & then and their being and then and there being so
unlawfully, riotously and tumultously assembled together to the
disturbance of the public peace as aforesaid they the said Raoul,
Lepine & Henrique with divers others as aforesaid then and there
unlawfully & with force and arms did make great noises, riots, tumults
& disturbances, & then & there unlawfully, riotously, routously, and
tumultuously remained & continued together making such noises
riot, tumult, and disturbance for a long space of time, to wit for the
space of an hour & more then next following & then & there unlawfully,
riotously & tumultuously remained & continued together & with force
and arms did begin with hammers, sticks and stones or missiles to
demolish, injure & pull down the dwelling house of one Paul H. Gerrish
situate on the Plaza in the City of Pensacola aforesaid in said District
& within said jurisdiction and then & there did continue thus acting
as aforesaid to the great terror & disturbance not only of the good
citizens of the said U. States & Territory then & there passing & then &
there abouts inhabiting, residing & being, but of all the other faithful
citizens, of the said U. States & Territory then & there passing &
repassing in and along the publick Streets and the common highways
here, in contempt of the said United States & Territory & its laws &
against the peace of the said U. States and Territory, the Government
and dignity of the same.
WILLIAM F. STEELE United States Attorney &c. &c.
Endorsements.
Witnesses. John W. Levinas, Whitfield Champlain, John Jarrison,
Charles C. Keyser, John Edgley, Noah H. Allen.—
U. States of America Territory of Florida, District of West Florida,
U. S. Dist: & Supr Courts W. F. Novº Term 1823
The Territory & vs Le Coulons al DeVilliers, R. Coulons al De-
Williers, Henrique Grandpré et al. Ind' for Riot. A True Bill



890 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
against Lepine Coulons al De Williers Raul Coulons al De Williers
and not found against Hen" Grandpre
EUGENIO LAVALLE Foreman
WILLAIM F. STEELE U. States Atty
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
United States District & Superior Courts. November Term 1823.
The Territory of Florida vs Lepine Coulons alias DeVilliers & Raoul
Coulons alias De Williers Indictment for Riot.
And the Court being now sufficiently advised of and concerning
the motion heretofore made to Quash the Indictment in this case;
it is ordered that the said Indictment be quashed, for this, that the
finding of the Grand Jury does not follow the offence charged in the
Bill.
November 12* 1823.
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk's Office, Superior Court.
I John Miller Clerk of said Court, do hereby certify that the fore-
going three pages & upwards contain a true and correct copy of a
Bill of Indictment found by the Grand Jury for said District at the
November Term 1823 of said Court together with all the indorsements
on said Bill & a true & correct Copy from the Records of said Court
of the order quashing said Bill of indictment made at the said Term
of said Court.—
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the seal of said Court at Pensacola this the 10* day
of March A. D. 1824.
JNO. MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] Nov Term Ind' Nº. 8
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk's Office, Superior Court
I John Miller Clerk of the said Court, do hereby certify that the
five Sheets of Paper hereunto attached, contain true and correct
copies of Five Bills of Indictment, found at the May Term 1823 of
said Court, together with all the indorsements thereon.
I testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the Seal of said Court at Pensacola this the 10* day
of March A D 1824.
JNO. MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] Indº Nº. 8 with M. Steele's letter of 12 March 1824



FL OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 891
Plea of Manuel de Villier8 and Louis de Villiers
[No. 9] [May 14, 1823]
Territory of Florida vs. Manuel & Louis de Williers indicted by the
names of Raoul & Lepine Coulons
And the said Manuel and Louis de Villiers who are indicted by the
names of Raoul & Lepine Coulons cometh in their proper persons and
having heard the indictment, saith that at the time of taking the said
indictment and long before they were called and known by the names
of Manuel and Louis de Williers without this that they the said Manuel
and Louis at the said time of taking the said indictment or at any
time since were Raoul & Lepine Coulons Cadets &c. or there were or
at any time since, has been or now are called or known by the names
of Raoul and Lepine Coulons and this they are ready to verify where-
fore they pray judgment of the Court here and that they may be
dismissed and discharged of, the said indictment.
WHITE pro Defts
MANUEL DE WILLIERS
LUIS DE WILLIERS
Sworn to before me this the 14* of May 1823 Joseph E. CARo N. P.
U. S. Dist: W. F.
Territory of Florida vs Raoul Coulons & Lepine Coulons 4 Ind” Riot,
Affray &c
And now William F. Steele Attorney of the United States & Terri-
tory &c. who for the said U. S & Terry prosecutes in this behalf
protesting that he doth not know that any thing in the Pleas of the
said Raoul & Lepine Coulons Cadets &c.—calling themselves in their
said Plea Manuel and Louis de Williers is true—says that that the
said Raoul and Lepine Cadets &c the indict” aforement" ought to
answer that indictmt, because he says that before and at the time
of the said indictment the said Raoul & Lepine Coulons Cadets &c
calling themselves as aforesaid were as well known & called & better
known & called, by the name of Raoul Coulons & Lepine Coulons as
& than by any other name whatever—& this he is ready to verify—
wherefore he prays judgment & that the indictment aforesaid may be
adjudged good & that the said Raoul & Lepine Cadets &c calling
themselves &c as afores'd may further answer to that indictment &c
W. F. STEELE U. S. Atty &c. &c
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk's Office, Superior Court.
IJohn Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the foregoing
two pages contain the Plea filed by the Defendants and the Replication
thereto by the Attorney for the U. States & Territory of Florida made
in four cases of Indictments of the said Territory vs Raoul & Lepine
Coulons and filed in my Office.



892 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the Seal of said Court, at Pensacola this the 10* day
of March A. D. 1824—
JNO. MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] with Mº Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 pleas Nº. 9
Statement of Attorney for Manuel de Villiers and Louis de Villiers
[No. 10] [No date, 1823]
Manuel & Louis deWilliers by their Atto state to the District Atto
for the U. States, that they are officers in the Spanish Service & will
be required in a Short time to join their Regiment in Havana, & that
it will be exceedingly difficult to procure security to appear at the
next term of this Court, because they cannot attend; they have respect
for and will submit to the laws of the U. States, should they ever again
return to this Territories, they therefore hope that the requisition under
such circumstances for Bail will in the Discretion of the Atto be
dispensed with, inasmuch as it cannot avail the Government of which
the Dis atto is the representative, & will be oppressive to the Defend-
ants all which is respectfully submitted
Jo" M. WHITE Atto for Defts—
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk's Office, Superior Court.—
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the above
is a true and correct copy from the original on file in my office.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the seal of said Court this 10* March 1824
JNO MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Note Nº. 10
Brief of Evidence in Myers case
[No. 11] [No date, 1824]
Brief of Evidence agreed on by Counsel.-
First, Proof by Mr Myer's confession and Mº Rickett's Testimony
that Plaintiff had notice of his being Superseded by defendant in office
on Saturday 12* ins' and expressed his wish & intent to Surrender
immediately—that he proceeded early on Monday morning to arrange
the papers of the Office for the surrender, and to collect several Bonds;
not then due or payable by two months.-collected at 8 O'Clock A. M.
by order of Meyers.
H. Michelet states same facts as to demand upon Tassiola one who
paid his bond & offer to take the money.
R. Mitchell—States he qualified M. Scott as Deputy Collector some
time on Monday morning.
J. Ortis proves demand by Parmentier of his Bond states he paid—
had not before paid because Specie only would be received.—



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 893
M* Ricketts proves Scott to have been at the Custom House during
the morning of Monday 14* when application was made to him Scott
for clearance of a Wessel—believes M. Myers was present—afterward
Alba paid his Bond in the Office.
Jose Marcos Tio, proves same with M* Ortis—proves Scott having
called with M. Carow on Monday to know if a Bond had that day
been paid—
Jose Tassiola confirms last Witness—
Palmer & Keyser U. S. money has been usually demanded by
Plaintiff, latter says Myers once received other money & begged him
not to tell it.
Mº Ximenes—came to state he applied to M' Scott on Monday at
the Custom house to clear his Wessel—Witness however only
Fitzgerald proves publication & states, that Mº Scott said his only
motive was the benefit of the publick—to keep the publick debtors
from Suffering.—
[Endorsed] with M* Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Brief No 11
Grand Jury Indictment of Steele and others
[No. 12] [November Term, 1823]
United States Dist: Court West Florida Novº Term 1823
The Grand Inquest for the District of West Florida upon their
oaths do present Wm. M. Read, Charles Pindar, Jacob Rickets Jr.
Richard J. Easter, and Wm. F. Steele for riotous and tumultous
conduct on the night of the twenty fifth day of October 1823 thereby
disturbing the peace of the Inhabitants of the said District—
They also further present W* F. Steele U. S. Attorney for setting
at defiance the laws of the City of Pensacola and this Territory in
threatening to make as much noise and disturbance with Trumpets
or in any manner which he might think proper, at the same threatening
to shoot any officer or other person attempting to interrupt him in
said noises and disturbances—
Signed Eugenio Lavalle Foreman
Sam' Patterson Peter Wilkison
Clark Jackson A. P. Simpson
Wm H. McCurdy John S. Moore
John Mathews Guillermo M*Voy
R. Manning Henry Ahrens
Jeptha Gilbert John Jerrison, Jr.
Rich" Eddins Franco Moreno
Isaac Jenwright David Rowland
Endorsed Presentments by Grand Jury
Quashed as groundless and informal by order of Court
Signed W* F. STEELE U. States Attorney
Novº Term 1823.



894 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
Territory of Florida, District of West Florida, Escambia County
U. States District & Superior Court West Florida. November Term
A. D. 1823
On Motion of Wm F. Steele U. S. Attorney that the presentments
of the Grand Jury for West Florida at this Term, made and returned
to this Court in three cases, for offences against the Territory, be
quashed for reason that no offences are charged therein and that they
are altogether insufficient and irregular—Ordered that the said
presentments be quashed.
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk’s Office, Superior Court
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the pre-
ceding contains a true extract from the presentments made by the
Grand Jury at the November Term of said Court 1823 and a true copy
of the endorsements thereon, and of the order of Court made at said
Term of said Court on said presentments.
In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the Seal of said Court at Pensacola this the 11* day
of March A. D. 1824.—
JNO. MILLER Clk
Territory of Florida District of West Florida
Clerk’s Office, Sup' Ct:
I John Miller Clerk of the U. States' District & Superior Courts of
said District do hereby certify that, beside the extract contained on the
annexed half-sheet of paper, no other presentment whatever was made
at said Term or any other Term of this Court against the said Wm. F.
Steele.—
In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the seal of said Court at Pensacola this the 11* day
of March A D 1824.
JNO MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Presentment &c
No 12
Affidavit of W. Davison
[No. 13] [March 12, 1824)
W. Davison being duly sworn deposeth & saith, that on or about
the 8” day of Nov last, he was in the Court room at Pensacola West
Florida, in company with W. F. Steele Esq." District Atty B. Wyman,
J. Ingraham, & W. H. Hunt, when in a conversation introduced by
him this deponent, and upon which conversation a presentment was
afterwards returned by the Grand Jury, the sº District Attº re-
marked, that he knew the law, that there was no law existing or
which could exist in a free country, to prevent a Citizen amusing



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 895
himself, that whenever he s” Atty choose to amuse himself with
Jews—harp, fiddle, flute or horn, he would do so, and would not be
molested therein while Acting within the law—that he s” Atty had
no inmity against any man, that when he should choose thus to amuse
himself with music he would not be disturbed, and if any man should
then Attempt to seize & imprison him while thus acting lawfully, he
would resist, and that he had a good brace of pistols & would level
them (or words to the same import) At the first man who should at-
tempt thus unlawfully to seize him. And this deponent further saith
that he left the court room in Co. with the afores" Atty and recollects
perfectly well that during the whole of this conversation nothing was
said by him the s” Atty that could bear a different construction from
what is contain’d in this affidavit. And this deponent further saith,
that he the s” deponent has been in Attendance at every Court, as an
officer, held in Pensacola West Florida since the sº District Atty's
first arrival, & has observed him the s” Atty Critically, every day, &
that he the deponent has never seen the s” Atty inebriated, nor in
the least disguised with liquor during the s” Courts terms.-And
further this deponent saith not.—
W. DAVISON
Sworn to before me the 12* of March 1824—P. ALBA Mayor act.
J. P.
[Endorsed] with M* Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Mr Davison
affidavit Pres"—Nº 13
Statement of Eugenio Lavalle and others
[No. 14) [March 10, 1824]
The undersigned late foremen of Grand Inquests in W. Florida,
having learned with regret that a secret attempt has been made, to
effect the removal from office of William F. Steele Esq. Attorney of
the U. S. for W. Florida take this occasion voluntarily and freely to
express their hope of its failure; and at the same time to express their
opinion of his official integrity and the correctness of his private
character—Having each acted with him officially they have no hesi-
tation in declaring that their intercourse with him as Grand Jurors
has amply proved him to be a zealous and faithful officer of the
Government.
PENSACOLA March 10th 1824.
EUGENIO LAVALLE
TIMOTHY TWITCHELL
N. H. ALLEN
[Endorsed] with M Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Foremen of G
Juries No 14



896 T E R R IT OR I. A L P A P E R S
Grand Jury Indictment of Manuel de Villiers and Louis de Villiers
[No. 15) [February Term, 1824]
[U States of America Territory of Florida Escambia Ct
County Court Feby Term 1824
ESCAMBIA COUNTY ss—The Grand Jurors Sworn, chosen and
selected in & for the body of the County, U. States & Territory afore-
said to wit Timothy Twitchell Foreman, John Simpson, Joseph
Noriega, Joseph C. Keyser, Furgeson H. Nisbet, Manuel Bonifay,
Francisco Mareno, David Williams, Domingo Torri, W* Wyatt, W*
Compton Henry Michelet, Pierre Senac, Eugene Lavallé, W*M*Woy,
John de la Rua, and Ambrose Crane, in the name & behalf of the
citizens of the said (U. States, Territory &) county and upon their
oaths do present and say that Raoul Coulons alias Manuel De Williers
Lepine Coulons alias Louis De Williers Paul H. Gerrish and Henrique
Grandpre all and each of late of Pensacola in the said County and
within the jurisdiction of this Court on the ninth day of April, in the
year of our Lord one thousand Eight Hundred and Twenty three,
with force and arms at Pensacola, in the County aforesaid and within
the jurisdiction of this Court unlawfully, riotuously and tumultuously,
assembled together, to the intent to disturb the public peace of the
said U. States & Territory & to the great disturbance of the public
peace aforesaid & being so unlawfully, riotuously and tumultuously
assembled together to the disturbance of the public peace aforesaid,
then & there did engage in fighting one another and then as aforesaid
they the said traversers and defendants did fight together and then
and there as aforesaid did assemble together with such unlawful in-
tentions as aforesaid, did do great injury to the public peace & did
assail the house of the said Gerrish or make dire noisses & disturb-
ances thereabout, & did then and there made a great noise riot &
disturbance at and about the said dwelling house & in the public
streets of Pensacola aforesaid and within the jurisdiction aforesaid
and other wrongs in the premisses to the good citizens of the said U.
States Territory & County then and there unlawfully, riotuously and
routuously did to the great damage and disturbance of the peace of
all the good & peaceable citizens of the said U. States & Territory &
County aforesaid in contempt and defiance of the laws, to the evil
example of all others in like cases offending, and against the peace of
the said U. States and Territory the Government and dignity of the
Same
WILLIAM FSTEELE Attorney of the U. States & Terry for W Florida



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 897
The Territory &c vs Raoul Coulons &c & Lepine Coulons &c
On Indictment for Riot
This day came the said parties by their Attornies, And on motion
of the Defendants to quash the Indictment herein
1st. Because it was admitted that the Attorney of the United States,
had inserted their names “Louis & Manuel” by permission of the
Grand Jury, after the Bill was returned into Court. 2nd There is no
addition to their names as a descriptio personaeum & 3rd The Indict-
ment does not show that the offence charged is a riot. The motion
being argued in full It is ordered that the said Indictment be quashed
on the first ground taken.—
County Court Escambia County February Term AD 1824 Monday
9* February 1824.
Territory of Florida Escambia County
Clerk’s Office, County Court.
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the fore-
going three pages contain a true and correct Copy of an Indictment
found by the Grand Jury at the late February Term of said Court and
of the order of said Court quashing said Indictment.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[L. S.] affixed the seal of the said Court at Pensacola this the 11th day
of March A. D. 1824.—
JNO MILLER Clk
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Cy Court Nº. 15
Certificate of John Miller
[No. 16] [March 5, 1824]
Territory of Florida County of Excambia
Clerk's office, County Court
I John Miller Clerk of said Court do hereby certify that the fore-
going two pages contain a true and correct copy of the Grounds filed
on motion to quash an Indictment in the case of The Territory vs
Raoul & Lepine Coulons alias Louis & Manuel de Williers—et al, and
of the grounds of opposition to said motion; which are signed in the
proper hands writing of W. F. Steele Esqr Attorney for the Territory
and of Joseph M. White Esqr Attorney for the Defendants, and filed
in my office.
In Witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and the
[L. S.] seal of said Court at Pensacola this the 5* day of March
A. D. 1824.—
JNO MILLER Clk County Ct
[Endorsed] The Territory of Florida vs. Raoul & Lepine Coulons
alias Louis & Manuel de Williers & al.-Copy of Motion to quash
indictment, &c. with M Steele's letter of 12 March 1824. Nº 16
801867–57–58



898 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Enclosure:ALS)
Timothy Twitchell to William F. Steele
[No. 17] PENSACOLA March 11 1824
SIR In answer to your note of this date requesting me to state my
impression respecting the filling the Blanks in an Indictment found
against the Coulons by the Grand Jury at the late term of the county
Court, I have to state for myself then acting as Foreman, I was fully
satisfyed that by the name of Coulon the persons were sufficiently
identified without the addition of De Williers, as they had never been
known to myself by any other name than Coulon untill this prossecu-
tion and had always been known by and answered to that name, which
I am well satisfied was known to all the Grand Jury or at least all those
belonging to this City, and I considered the filling up the Blanks
against the name of D* Williers by the U.S. Attorney of no importance
nor did I believe him actuated by any incorect motives in doing it.—
In answer to your inquiry whether it was not my impression that the
prosecution of yourself before Justice Williams for Forgery, in filling
the blanks before the name De Williers before alluded to, was not
wholly malicious. I can onely say that being present as a witness, I
was surprised to see the first witness I think that was examined and
whose testimony was by no means decisive recognized to apear at the
next term of the Court before the examination of other witnesses, and
I could not help observing to that person, that it apeared the Justice
had mad up his mind before he had examined the witnesses—And
finally I considered the prosecution wholly unwarranted by the
circumstances of the case
Respectfully Your Obt Serº
TIMOTHY TWITCHELL
WILLIAM F STEELE U. S. Attorney for W Florada
[Addresses] William F. Steele Esqr U. S. Attorney for W. Florada
Present
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Nº. 17
[Enclosure:DS]
Affidavit of W. Wyatt
[No. 18] [March 12, 1824)
Territory of Florida Escambia County—
I do certify as one of the Grand Inquest at the February Term of
the County Court in the said County—that W. S. Steele U. S. Dist'
Attorney for West Florida laid before the said Jury a certain Indict-
ment against Mess” Coulons stating at same time, that there was a
part of those Names that he had omitted in the Indictment but he
would endeavor to ascertain what they called their proper names and
furnish the Jury with the Same in a short time—the Said Grand Jury
however was of opinion that part of the name was not mentioned.—as



FLORI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 899
the greater part of them were personally acquainted with the two
Coulons and the circumstances—also knew them by that name and no
other. Therefore the Jury proceeded to find a true Bill with an under-
standing to alter the name if necessary—I do further give it as my
opinion, that Said Bill was handed again to the Jury by the Attorney
with the insertion of part of the name through Some mistake of the
Jury the Bill was again returned into Court as before a true Bill
without the Jury considering the insertion.—
Understanding that there has been a criminal prosecution com-
menced against Major Steele for altering the Indictment I can say
for myself and what before was the general opinion, that it is one of
the most malicious things that could be thought of and that the thing
has been premeditated on, and urged Solely to aid in the removal of
Maj. Steele from Office. I can Say I have always seen Maj. Steele
act uniformly with uprightness as an Officer with correctness &
regularity as a Citizen
W. WYATT
Sworn to & Subscribed before me THOMAS J WYCHE J. P. E. C.
PENSACOLA 12* March 1824.
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Nº. 18
[Enclosure:ALS)
B. D. Wright to William F. Steele
[No. 19] [March 12, 1824]
SIR In reply to your Note of last evening I have to regret that
during the term to which your Note alludes my business on the civil
side of the Court was so pressing as to leave me no time to attend to
the criminal business except where I was myself of counsel The Views
of my predecessor, Judge Bowie, of the subject on which you request
my opinion would doubtless be more satisfactory I believe I was
present when the altercation took place between yourself as District
Attorney and the counsel for the Defendants in the Indictment vs the
Coulons. My not having attended to the particulars of that alterca-
tion sufficiently to be enabled now to state them is the only evidence
I have of the light in which I viewed the whole transaction at the time.
If the slightest imputation against the moral correctness of your
conduct had been made or even if occasion had been given for such
imputation I am certain I should have observed and recollected it.
I am yrs &c
B. D. WRIGHT
TO MAJ STEELE District Attorney
Friday morning March 12* 1824
[Addressed] Maj Steele D. A. Present
[Endorsed] with Mr Steele's letter of 12 March 1824 Nº. 19



900 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO DELEGATE CALL
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book A]
POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT 12th Mar. 1824
HON. RICH* K. CALL,
SIR, I have written to M' Floyd on the subject of his letter to you"
offering him 1100$ a year for carrying the mail between Jefferson &
Sº Augustine which appears to be a full equivalent for the alteration
He has also been advised that if the sum is not satisfactory he may
relinquish the contract on 60 dys notice.
J M*LEAN
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO JOHN FLOYD
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book A.]
POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT 12. Mar. 1824.
John FLOYD Sº Augustine, Florida—
SIR, Your aſc of the difference in the expence of the two routes
Jefferson to Sº Augustine & Sº Marys to Sº Augustine from that of
others, that I am at at a loss what a sum to offer as an equivalent for
the charge. From the best view of it that I can take 1100$ a year would
be a full equivalent & higher than that ought not to be given. If you
are content with that sum I wish you to continue, otherwise to give
me 60 days notice. of your intention to quit & the contract shall
cease at the end of that time.”
J M*LEAN
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY TRUSTEES OF KENTUCKY
INSTITUTION FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB
[NA:HF, 19 Cong., 1 sess.: C*]
[March 15, 1824]
To the Homble The Congress of the United States
The petition of the Trustees of The Kentucky institution for the
Tuition of the Deaf and Dumb respectfully states that they were
incorporated by act of the Legislature of Kentucky passed at their
October Session 1822.” That a grant was made of $3000 to enable
them to put the Institution into operation, which was effected in
April following—Soon after the commencement of our School appli-
cations have been made from various parts of the western Country to
admit Pupils, this school being the only one west of the mountains
It is expected that the number of pupils at the end of 2 months will
nearly reach forty and from the difficulty of establishing schools and
92 Not found.
* See post, p. 916.
* Printed also in H. Doc. 9, 19 Cong., 1 sess.
* Act dated Dec. 7, 1822 (Ky., Acts, 1822, pp. 179–181).



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 901
obtaining qualified Teachers it is not expected that another institution
of the kind will be put in operation West of the mountains for a con-
siderable time to come It is therefore confidently expected that this
Institution, located, as it is, in the centre of the Western States will be
looked to for the instruction of mutes by those States Accordingly the
Legislature by an amended clause in our Charter made at the last
Session has made provision for the admission of pupils from other
States
The Legislature of Kentucky actuated by those benevolent feelings
which adorn the human heart have granted us such donations as the
state of her Treasury Warranted, but it is nevertheless insufficient
to enable us to conduct it in the best manner and upon such a scale as
to supply the demand for instruction—The expenses of such Institu-
tions are much greater, than ordinary Literary Institutions, in propor-
portion to the number of pupils. It is also a lamentable fact that
much the largest number of deaf and dumb persons are found in the
poor and indigent classes of Society and without the charitable aid of
the Government, to the exertions of individuals, great numbers of
those children of misfortune must forever be debarred of the means of
restoration from mental darkness, to their proper rank in the scale
of being—
Your Petitioners cannot entertain a doubt, that our national Legis-
lature will be actuated by those feelings which have characterised the
acts of every other, before whom the claim has been brought of those,
whom, God in the mysterious dispensations of his Providence, has
deprived of the faculty of hearing and of speech, of whom, an eloquent
divine has said “silence like theirs is eloquence,” Your Petitioners were
gratified to find that a former Congress gave with a liberal hand aid to
the Hartford Institution, located in a convenient place to supply the
North Eastern Section of the Union, and we hope that the national
bounty will be extended to our Institution similarly located in the
west. Your Petitioners refer for particular information of the state of
our Institution to the documents herewith transmitted—We therefore
pray that Congress will grant such a donation as in their wisdom may
seem proper and your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray
By order Superintending Committee
D G. COWAN
B. H. PERKINS
J BARBOUR
W. MILLER
E M*DOWELL
J FISHER
DANVILLE Mar 15 1824



902 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Endorsed] Memorial of the Superintending Committee of the Deaf &
Dumb Asylum of Kentucky Moore of Kent, 14 Select (7) *
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., G 5:ALS)
ST AUGUSTINE 16 March 1824
DEAR SIR I find by the papers that an appropriation for opening
the road between St Augustine & Pensacola has passed both houses of
Congress”—I take the liberty of suggesting the propriety of commenc-
ing at both extremities at the same time—This will greatly expedite
the operation and prove a great convenience to the Population in this
quarter by facilitating the communication between the St Johns &
Alachua–I should suppose the garrison of St Augustin, if reinforced
with the company at Charleston belonging to this station, might
furnish a detail adequate to open the road as far as the Sewaney—
Your ob Svt
JAMES GADSDEN
[Endorsed] Gadsden. J. Sº Augustine, 16 March, 1824 relative to the
road between Sº Augustine & Pensacola
* Presented to the House by Rep. Thomas P. Moore, this petition was referred
on Apr. 5, 1824, to a select committee from which Moore reported a bill on May 4
(House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 359, 486). In the following session Moore,
on Jan. 19, 1825, made another report with a bill, which did not pass (ibid., 18
Cong., 2 sess., p. 146). Another memorial of Feb. 2, 1826 (printed in H. Doc. 100,
19 Cong., 1 sess.) was referred on Feb. 20 to the Committee of the Whole House
along with the above petition which had once again been referred to a select com-
mittee on Dec. 12, 1825. A favorable report of Dec. 22 (House Report, No. 17,
19 Cong., 1 sess.) resulted in the act approved Apr. 5, 1826 (House Journal, 19
Cong., 1 sess., pp. 37, 84, 272, 329, 331, 389, 392, 412, 416, 427; 6 STAT. 339).
This act provided for a grant of one township of land, excluding sec. 16, to be
located under direction of the Secretary of the Treasury in one of the territories
on lands freed from Indian title. A subsequent act of Jan. 29, 1827 (4 STAT. 202)
empowered the asylum to relocate the part of the township lost to preemptors
on other unappropriated and unreserved lands. The measures taken by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, the Commissioner of the GLO, and the agents of the
asylum (Samuel K. Nelson, David Thomas, and Richard C. Allen) to locate the
grant in Florida Territory are documented in S. Doc. 208, 20 Cong., 1 sess., from
material in NA (HR, Orig. Reports, Treas. Dept., 20 Cong. 1 sess.), later reprinted
in A.S.P., Pub. Lands, v. 278–291. A few other pertinent letters of May, Aug.,
and Sept., 1826, may be found in the Pensacola Gazette and W. Fla. Advertiser,
Oct. 6, 1826.
* Approved Feb. 28, 1824, 4 STAT. 5–6. See Call to the Secretary of War,
Sept. 17, 1824 (post, vol. xxiii).



FLOR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 903
WILLIAM REYNOLDS AND ANTONIO ALWAREZ TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
ST. AUGUSTINE March 16th 1824.
TO THE HONORABLE JOHN Q. ADAMS.
SIR. In a letter received from Fontaine Maury Esquire dated 6th
January we find the following “At the same time that I give you this
information, I am directed to remark to you, that this appointment
was by no means considered a permanent one, and that both the
President, and Secretary of State, have been disappointed at not
having long since been advised of the complete accomplishment of
the duties appertaining to it. It is earnestly hoped and expected
of you and your associate that you will bring this business
to as spedy a close, as the circumstances of the case may admit
of, and that you will give satisfactory explanations for its having been
thus long kept open.” ” In compliance with the above instructions
we reply that we never did consider the appointment a permanent
one, that from the terms of our Commission which directs us “to
select from them for preservation among the archives of the Territory,
“All archives and Documents which relate directly to the property
and sovereignty of the Provinces of East and West Florida, to take
an Inventory of the same, and also of all other Documents and papers
found among them.” we concluded that the Government was not
satisfied with the manner in which the Documents had been pre-
viously examined by order of Mr. Worthington, and knowing that in
that examination many Bundles of papers were not even untied, but
retained or returned as was judg” expedient by the mere reading of
the label, and that this mode was by no means satisfactory to the
people, as enquiries were daily making for papers said to have existed
in the Office under the Spanish Government but were not to be found
among those retained by the former Commissioners; under those
circumstances we considered it our duty to examine and read every
Document seperately in order to enable us to make that selection
which the Government required and which the inhabitants expected
of us. This duty we have performed in a faithful and attentive
manner and have selected from 64.299—Documents 423. many of
which have already proven to be important to the Board of Land
Commissioners and many others are equally so to private individuals.
We now enclose a Copy of the Inventory in English which will serve
further to show the manner in which we have executed the Com-
mission,” as also our separate acts for the ballance of pay due us,
* Not found. See ante, p. 820.
* In NA (SD, Fla. Arch., Env. 8) are two inventories prepared by Reynolds and
Alvarez, both dated Feb. 2, 1823, one of documents relative to property and
sovereignty of the Floridas retained out of the Spanish archives and the other of
documents which ought to be returned to the Spanish Government.



904 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
and the account of the expences incurred in the course of the exami-
nation; we have in our present account deducted the number of days
which we thought would have been deducted from the first quarters
salary, as in our letter to the Department dated August 1823. we
stated that the examination had been suspended from the 24* May
to 7” July in consequence of Mr. Reynolds being engaged as a
Member of the Legislative Council—
We trust this explanation will prove as satisfactory to the
Government as the manner of executing our Commission has to
people of this part of the Territory.
We are with much respect Sir your very Humble and Obedient
Servants—
WILL REYNOLDS
ANTONIO ALWAREZ
[Addressed] Honorable John Quincy Adams. Secretary of State.
[Endorsed) Reynolds and Alvares Antonio St Augustine, 16 March
1824 Recd 10th April Their aſcs & vindication
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd. (Seminoles):ALS)
PENSACOLA March 19° 1824
HoN” JoHN. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
SIR Some short time before the meeting of the present congress
I was applied to by several of the most influential Chiefs of the
Seminole Indians to allow them to visit Washington As congress was
about to assemble I thought it would be improper to permit them to
go, at a time you would be so pressed with important business-I
deem it my duty to apprise you of the desire of the Chiefs, before I
give them permission and to await your answer on the subject. I
would recommend that Neamathala and, a few of the head chiefs,
should be allowed to visit Washington, Neamathala is a man of un-
common abilities and has great influence, with his Nation, He is one
of the most eloquent men I have ever heard If this chief could be
attached warmly to our Government, it would cirtainly be good policy,
to acquire his confidence & friendship "
I am Respectfully Your Obt. Sevt.
Win P. DUWAL
[Addressed] Hon” John. C. Calhoun Secretary of War Washington-
City—[Postmarked] Pensacola March 19 Free
1 Answered Apr. 8, 1824, NA (OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1), consenting to the wishes
of the Seminole Indians to visit Washington. See post, p. 939.



FL OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 905
[Endorsed] Pensacola March 19. 1824. His Excellº Wºn P. DuVal.
The Indians wish to visit the Seat of Government, recommends that
they be indulged—Speaks highly of the Chief Neamathla—
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd. (Fla.):ALS)
S* AUGUSTINE 20 March 1824
SIR By Lieu" Alberti " I informed you of my return to this place;
I have now the honor to report more in detail as to my operations under
the commission to survey the Indian boundary line—The limits
allotted the Indians were to commence at a point 5 miles North of
Okehumke; but if on examination of the Country it should be found
that there was not a sufficient quantity of land adequate to the support
of the Indians to be received within the boundaries designated; then
the north line was to be extended so as to ensure that object—On
examination I found the country fully equal to the support of the
Indian population, as reported, combining agriculture, stock, and
hunting, provided the Settlements at Okehumke and at Setarky's
could be preserved *—Indeed the commencement of the reservation 5
miles north of Okehumke was with a view to that object, and the
stipulation of a removal in certain events, was conceded in order to
reconcile as far as practicable the Indians of those settlements to the
general terms of the Treaty—It was found on examination however
that the line, first called for, encroached upon the settlement of Setarky
approaching within sight of his improvements, and running through
the centre of his grazing grounds—Independent of the vicinity of the
same line to the establishment at Okehumke, the closing line to its
commencement would likewise have passed through the grazing grounds
of that settlement; which would have proven vexatious to the Indian
as run appearantly with no object, securing to a white population
no additional advantages as to security, soil fit for cultivation, or
grounds connected with agricultural establishments which might be
made—It was deemed therefore advisable to extend the north line,
and it has been done to 10 miles north of Okehumke, running East &
West to the waters of the Ocklewaha, and the swamps of the Amaxura
or Withlachuche river—from thence the boundary has been surveyed
as called for in the Treaty to the south end of the Big Hammock—
The article required such a direction however to this line as to include
Checuchate—A line to the South end of the Big Hammock would, if
continued in the same direction, have passed thro: and interferred with
the Hammock & Savannah of Checuchatte, so as to have seriously
* Edwin R. Alberti.
* See map facing p. 968, for locations of places mentioned in this letter.



906 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
affected the settlement in that quarter—The continuation of the line
for 4 miles therefore, and within the spirit of terms, “to include
Checuchatte” has been made to deviate a little to the west from
the original direction—From thence it is run and marked (with the
exception of some interposing & impenetrable swamps as defined in
the Treaty untill the same terminates in a great savannah the com-
mencement of the extensive south western hunting grounds—These
savannahs are said to extend south & east to within a few miles of
the Atlantic & independent of the impracticability of passing over
them, from their peculiar character; the want of wood water &c it
would have been impossible otherwise to have defined the line for
the want of objects to mark—The South line running East & West—
and the East line “North fifteen west for 50 miles”—as called for in
the 2" article of the Treaty will pass over these extensive grassy planes
and cannot be defined; the closing line to the beginning may I presume
to a certain extent be surveyed & marked; but the advancing of the
northern line necessarily produced a change in this & its direction
could not be ascertained untill the probable length of the Southern
line was determined by known points and distances on the Atlantic—
I should have proceeded on the operation but the uncertainty of
being able to penetrate by the Atlantic shore to the south; the time
necessary to the accomplishment of the object; the exhausted state
of my provisions, reduced condition of men & horses, the lateness of
the season & importance of marking the reservations on the Appa-
lachicola immediately all concurred to predº induce a postponement of
what may be performed at any other time without detrement to the
public service—This line will doubtless terminate or unite with the
eastern line on the same extensive district of savannahs & Ponds noted,
and beyond which no designation of the Indian boundary can be
made—If it could it would in my opinion, considering the general
character of the territory South be unimportant, and unquestionably
vexatious to the Indian population as seeming to deprive their Hunters
of the use of a district of country which can never be converted to
any use by white population—It is valued by the Indians only for
the game which it affords. They do not & cannot reside on or near
that district of savannahs & it is only visited by them during the dry
and winter or hunting seasons—The Indians must necessarily form
their settlements near the Northern & Western limits and sourses of
Talachopco Creek—Their permanent improvements therefore will
be concentrated to a certain extent, while during the hunting season
alone they will roam over the extensive savannahs South in quest of
game—To have marks therefore on this district to restrict them in
their hunts would appear vexatious without any object—It may be
advisable however to let the Indians distinctly understand the extent
of their reservations as well as it can be explained; but that the Presi-



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 907
dent of the U.S. permits them to make use of those grounds during
the hunting season, prohibiting however any extension of their settle-
ments in that quarter or near the sea coast south—The line from the
Eastern extremity of the northern limit as extended it would be im-
portant to have deferred as far as practicable; it would exhibit their
bounds in that quarter & in conjunction with the western line explain
the probable termination South—The marking of this line might be
easily connected, and at but inconsiderable additional expence, with
the survey of the contemplated road to Cape Florida—by which
reconnoisance in conjunction with the one directed to Cape Sable a
mass of information may be collected shedding much additional light
on the geography of Florida—I accompany this with a hasty sketch
which will assist in explaining for a time the direction & relative
position of points lines &c untill a more perfect map of the country
can be prepared from the notes & surveys made
I have this day drawn upon you in favº of M T C Gibbs for three
hundred & nine dollars on account of expenditures to running Indian
boundary * &
Your ob Se
JAMES GADSDEN
THE HON J C CALHOUN
[Addressed] The Department of War Washington D Columbia
[Postmarked] St Augustine 23 March free
[Endorsed] Sº Augustine, 20 March 1824. Col” James Gadsden—
Reports his operations under the Commission to survey the Indian
boundary line in Florida–From Col Gadson on the Subject of his
Survey &c.—
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA March 25* 1824
HON, JOHN Q. ADAMS Secretary of State,
SIR, I have the honor to inform you that the Legislative Council
will hold their next Session at the new seat of Government Eighteen
miles north of the Post of St. Marks—I have ordered the Stationary
and necessary supplies for the use of the Council; some expense must
also be incurred in removing the records and publick documents &c
from St. Augustine & this place to the seat of government I request
that to meet these expenses $1,000 may be remitted to me at this
point. I am uninformed as to the method pursued by the Governors
of Territories in obtaining funds for these expenses, I never venture to
draw on any department without special authority to do so. I
* See post, p. 968.



908 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
request you will in- inform me what has been the usual practice in
other Territories in relation to this subject. -
The emigration to this Territory is considerable and from informa-
tion little doubt is entertained that the whole country between the
Apalachicola and Suwannee rivers will soon be settled with a dense
population—The appointment of a surveyor general for this Territory
who should commence his labors immediately would serve to increase
the emigration to Florida. I believe that in five years if the land is
brought into market that I have seen and know to be rich and valuable
a great part of the Florida debt will be reimbursed.”
I am with great Respect Your Obed" serv"
Wm. P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washing-
ton City [Postmarked] Pensacola March 26 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Governor—Pensacola 25 March 1824 Recd—20
April Affairs of Florida—Recommends app" of Surveyor Gen.'
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd. (Fla.):ALS)
PENSACOLA March 26* 1824
HoN" JoHN C. CALHOUN Secretary at War
I have made out my account for my services as superintendent of
Indian Affairs in Florida according to the principle of your letter of
the 25* of October last," a copy of which was inclosed to me lately,
This letter I had never before seen and the original must have miscar-
ried. I also received from Mº Call our delegate in Congress, a copy of
a letter from your department dated 24” of December last 7 on the
subject of concentrating the Indians this copy came to hand by the
mail of yesterday. The original letter never has been received, In
making out my estimate for the Indian Department of Florida, I have
included as you will see my compensation for two quarters of the
present year The first quarter is charged at the rate of $1500 per an-
num—as their was neither agent or sub agent in the Territory—I do
consider the allowance of $750. intirely too little for the time past
when their was an agent in Florida, I have been compelled the whole
time the agent was in Florida to attend in person to the Southern
Indians, for the agent could not attind to more than the Indians be-
tween the Appalachicola & Suwanee, when the Indians are concen-
trated, $750 per annum, may be sufficient, but under the peculier
circumstances in which I have been placed and more than usual,
* No reply found.
* Ante, p. 774.
7 NA (OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. F), printed, A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 615.



FLO RI D A T E R R IT OR Y 909
expence I have incured in my Superintendency I feel that, justice has
not been rendered to me for, the services I have performed up to the
end of the last year, and some further allowance ought to be made to
me up to that time, In future I shall not be compelled to incur half
the expence, I have heretofore been subjected to *—
I have the honor to remain your obt Sev"
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Honle John C. Calhoun Secretary of War Washington
City—
[Endorsed] Pensacola, Mar. 26" 1824. His Excellº Wº P. DuVal.
Relative to the allowance for his services—thinks it not sufficient—
hopes some addition may be made to it.—
[Enclosure: DS]
Account of the Superintendent of Indian Affairs
[March 25, 1824]
The United States, To Wm. P. Duval Dr
For the allowance for Clerk hire, office rent & as Superin-
tendent of Indian Affairs in the Territory of Florida from
the 20° June to 22% of September 1822 3 months and 2
days at $1500 prannum there being no Indian Agent
in Florida $383.33
For the same allowance from the 15* March 1823 to the 30°
of September 6 Months & 15 days at $750 prannum 406.25
For the same allowance from the 30° September to the 31**
December 1823 3 months at $1500 prannum. the Agent
being absent from the Territory 375. –
$1164.58
PENSACOLA March 25* 1824 I do hereby certify that the above
account is correctly stated and that the service charged therein have
been faithfully performed—
Wm P. DUVAL Governor of the Territory
of Florida & Supt. of In" Affairs
Received W* P. DuVal Governor of Florida & Supt. of In". Affairs
[Endorsed] Gov" DuVal's account for his Services. amount $1164.58.
* Answered post, p. 925.



910 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
U. S. Attorney’s Office W. F. PENSACOLA 30th March 1824.
SIR, The statement of the late Judge of the County Court of Es-
cambia who now resides at a distance without the limits of this Terri-
tory—and which statement I had the honor heretofore to inform you
I should forward to the Department of State I have not yet been en-
abled to obtain. Without making any farther delay therefore, in the
proceeding on this account, I must be content Sir to rest the investi-
gation upon the documents which were transmitted with my previous
communication * viz' the Bill of Indictm" vs the Coulons found at the
Term of the County Court in February—the statement of the Fore-
man of the Grand Jury who found the Bill and of the Juror Mº Wyatt
together with the duly certified copy of the grounds taken on the
motion to quash the Indictment—all which taken together will as I
conceive prove the last attempt to charge me with official misconduct
nay, even with crime for a legal and Official act in the insertion of alias
Christian names of parties defendants—(which were considered mere
form by the Jury as well as the Attorney—& which were afterwards
by the Attorney to the Court offered to be considered as entirely
surplusage) to be one of the most malignant attempts to pervert the
laws to wicked purposes which has ever occurred.
Satisfied that justice will be the guiding principle in the investiga-
tion upon this occasion "
I have the honor to remain Sir with the highest consideration
Your most obed" Servant
WILLIAM F STEELE
Attorney of the US &c. &c
HON. JoHN Q. ADAMS Sec" of State Washington City—
[Endorsed] Steele W. F. Pensacola, 30 March 1824 Recd 22 April
Windicatory.
JOHN LEE WILLIAMS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, XI:ALS)
[Received April 1, 1824)
SIR I learn that charges have been prefered against William F.
Steele Esq." District Attorney for West Florida. What those charges
are, I do not know, but I do know that he has been guilty of much
improper conduct, and when I see men supporting him against their
own convictions of his incapacity, I have thought that my duty to
society & to the Government required me to make to you Excellency
* Ante, p. 864.
10 See post, p. 951.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 911
a statement of facts. I therefore beg you Excellency to excuse this
intrusion on your valuable time.
The dockets of our Courts herewith presented will shew in what
manner our Criminal proceedings have been conducted. Should he
endeavour to cast the blame of this wretched management, on the
Judge of the District Court, the pure character of that Man will shield
him from the aspersion, and it will be seen, that in the Circuit &
County Courts, the mismanagement has been equally apparent.
The whole course of Mr Steele's conduct here, has tended to shield
the Guilty and to harrass the Innocent. Col. Barnet is said to be
among his supporters * yet Col Barnet in my presence declared that
having employed Mr Steele to prosecute a Suit of his in Court, he
found him so incompetent, that he would rather pay him to drop it,
than to continue. Many other persons besides myself heard this
opinion given without any reserve. But it has been since discovered
that altho he is not competent to conduct legal proceedings he has been
able to scribble libels in a profligate News Paper against the Col's
pollitical opponents.
Mr Davidson another of Mr Steeles zealous defenders during the
last Summer shipped some Negroes to this place from New Orleans
contrary to the Act of Congress but Mr Steele refused to prosecute
him.” On this circumstance is founded the complaint of the Collector
some time since forwarded to your Department. Yet Mr Steele lately
Libelled the Florida Schooner in ten thousand dollars for bringing a
Gentleman Servant with his Master from New Orleans. But Mr
Davidson was and the other Gentleman was not a friend of Mr Steele.
Prosecutions are constantly multiplying against this Man for Tailors
Bills, for monies collected for his Clients and pocketed by him, his
Library consisting of Chitty & Blackstone have been seized by the
police officer to pay fines for riotous conduct in our streets and these
books had not, nor have not yet been paid for. When any person has
had the temerity to oppose him the least punishment they have had to
expect was an Indictment for some high crime supported before the
Grand Jury with his oath and pleadings. Certainly it is not for the
honor of our Goverment to support the most intemperate and im-
moral man in Community as a pattern for offenders to copy, even
should such a man be defended by a few persons for private pollitical
ends.
I therefore most respectfully pray your Excellency to lay before
the President the evidences” accompanying this Letter and please
11 See ante, p. 877.
* See ante, p. 876.
* Enclosed are a claim by William I. Hobby against Steele for $1041.11; an
affidavit by John McGregor, Collector at Pensacola, charging that Steele did not
act on his recommendation against Davison for illegally bringing slaves into the
country (see ante, p. 876); an affidavit by James Finley and John Edgeley that



912 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
to accept the assurances of the high consideration with which I have
the honor to be Yr Excellencys humble Servant
JOHN LEE WILLIAMS
[Endorsed] Williams John Lee no date Rec" 1 April 1824 respecting
charges against M* Steele with documents
ALEXANDER SCOTT, Jr., TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
Collector's Office PENSACOLA April 1* 1824
SIR Understanding that certain charges had been preferred against
W. F. Steele Esq.' U. S. Attorney for this District, among which one is
founded upon a letter addressed by me to the Hon” H. M. Brecken-
ridge,” I take the Liberty of stating, that this was not intended for
the purpose of invading the private or moral character of M* Steele,
as I would be amongst the first in affording a testimonial of the
honorable and correct deportment of this Gentleman since his residence
at this place
Although I considered at the time and still maintain it to have been
the duty of M" Steele to have proceeded Officially in the suit alluded
to, and in requesting him to do so was actuated by the purest
motives of my official duty, yet conceiving it incumbent upon every
honest citizen to lend his aid however feeble in protecting an op-
pressed individual I beg leave to submit to you my testimony of the
uniformly zealous and independent manner in which he has dis-
charged his Official duties in all cases wherein he has deemed it his
duty to appear.
I much regret that a letter of mine should be used in a clandestine and
insidious attempt to effect the destruction of any individual. More
Especially in the present instance in which I confidently assert that
the proceedings against the District Attorney are not sanctioned by
the unprejudiced and enlightened part of the Community"
I have the Honour to be, Sir Your very Obedient Servant
ALEX SCOTT J'
HONORABLE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
City
[Addressed] Honorable John Quincy Adams Secretary of State
Washington City [Postmarked] Pensacola April 2 Free
[Endorsed] Scott Alexander jun Pensacola, 1 April 1824 Recd 22*
Exculpatory of M* Steele, Dist Att"
Steele behaved in a riotous and drunken manner on several occasions; an affidavit
by John Innerarity that Steele tried to intimidate him while he was foreman of
the Grand Jury; and a list of the indictments brought by Steele before the May
and November Terms, 1823, and the February Term, 1824, of the Superior Court.
1* Not seen. See ante, p. 878.
1* See post, p. 951.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 913
COMMISSION OF MEMBERS OF LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[April 2, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of an Act of Congress passed on the
third day of March 1823, entitled “An Act to amend an act for the
establishment of a Territorial Government in Florida, and for other
purposes,” and reposing special Trust and Confidence in the Integrity
and Abilities of James Gadsden," Joseph M. Hernandez, Peter
Mitchell, William R. Reynolds, John L. Daggett, Abraham Bellamy,
Jonathan Robinson, Thomas Russ, James Bright, Richard Compton,
John de la Rua, Ben. D. Wright, and Joseph Noriga, all of Florida, I
have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the Senate
of the United States,” appointed them and every of them members
of the Legislative Council of the said Territory; and do authorize
and empower them and every of them to execute and fulfil the duties of
their said offices according to law; and to Have and to Hold the same
with all the rights thereunto legally appertaining for the term of one
year from the fourth day of March last, unless the President of the
United States for the time being should be pleased sooner to revoke
this Commission as to all or any of the said persons.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the
L. S. United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand
at the City of Washington the second day of April A. D. 1824;
and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Forty
Eighth.
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
1% James Gadsden resigned Aug. 3, 1824, because of his engagement to survey
the Indian boundary line in Florida (NA, SD, Applications). In the same letter
Gadsden recommended William H. Simmons, of St. Augustine, who was appointed
to the vacancy on Sept. 4, 1824 (NA, SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.). The commission
was transmitted to Simmons on Sept. 7, 1824 (NA, SD, Dom. Letters, xx). In
reply he transmitted on Sept. 23, 1824 a letter of resignation, in which he recom-
mended the appointment of I. N. Cox, of St. Augustine (NA, SD, Resignations).
17All of these appointees were nominated on Mar. 12, 1824, and confirmed on
Apr. 2 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 365, 369).
18 The commission was transmitted to Gov. DuVal on Apr. 23, 1824 (NA, SD,
Dom. Lets. XX), and acknowledged by him on June 1, (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
801867–57–59



914 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA W. F. April 2" 1824.—
GENERAL, I had the honor to receive by yesterday's mail your
letter of the 16** February last”; this letter, if the mails were regular,
ought to have been received on the 9” Ulto., and I regret its previous
failure, for if it had come to hand earlier it would have saved to the
Quartermaster's department $.600 in the charter of a vessel on the
27* Ulto. I had postponed making the charter until the last moment,
hoping to receive your answer to my letter of 22° January * in time to
supercede its necessity, but there was provisions for the Troops at
Tampa only up to the 15* Inst. admitting that no Rations had been
issued to Indians visiting the Post, which doubtless has been done;
hence I did not think it prudent to delay chartering a vessel any
longer, after the arrival of the mail before this last. I have engaged
the Schooner Florida for the voyage at $800, and made it one of the
conditions, as it did not materially affect the price of the charter, that
she should touch at St. Marks on her return & bring from thence a
Cargo of Military Stores. She has on board for Tampa, about 500
Barrels of Quartermaster's & Subsistence Stores, & I have also shipped
on her, the four oxen hitherto kept in service at Cantonment Clinch,
Colonel Brooke having stated to me in a letter recently received, that
more Teams & one Waggon were indispensably necessary to enable
him to put his men in Quarters before the hot Season commences.—
It is with extreme diffidence that I shall incur so much expense to
the department in exercising the discretionary power, with which you
have honored me, in regard to purchasing the Schooner Florida; and
think it necessary to apprise you of the reasons which determine me
to do so.” The enclosed statement exhibits the Several amounts
already paid or contracted for in this office for vessel transportation
in a given period; and also the cost of sailing a suitable public trans-
port during the same time, & which could have performed the same
service with ease. It is to be observed that this Statement does not
embrace the expense incurred for transportation of Officer's baggage
from this place to Tampa within that period & which has amounted
to, say, $.300 more. The vessel alluded to was brought out new last
november, she is built of the best materials, is copper-fastened through-
out, completely finished & wellfound in Sails, rigging, cabin furniture
&c. She is what is termed a centre-board vessel, is of easy draught
of water, & carries a large cargo in proportion to her tonnage. Last
November, her owner, would have probably sold her for about $4800;
* See ante, p. 838, n.
*Ante, p. 838.
* The Quartermaster General to Burch, Feb. 16, 1824 (NA, WD, QMG Lets.
Sent, Bk. 6). See post, p. 927.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 915
at present he has offered her to me for $.4000.-If the Ameliawasa
suitable vessel for the public service at all, which she is not on account
of her size, She is now nearly worn out & her Captain represents to
me that she must immediately have a new suit of Sails & be partially
rebuilt if retained in service. Her cargo is about 175 Barrels, and it
requires but one man more, at $.20 per month, to navigate the Florida
carrying 500 Barrels, than is necessary for the Amelia. She has been
turned over to me by Captain Hunt agreably to your order & I am
about to dispatch her to St. Marks for a cargo of the public property
there; & on her return if the Florida is purchased, she will be of no
further service in the department, & I shall sell her without putting
any repairs on her, as it would probably cost as much, if not more,
to repair her, than she would then sell for.—
I do not mean to be understood that a public vessel will continue
always to save as much as is shewn by the enclosed statement, because
that must depend solely upon the activity of her employment; but it
is more than probable that She will be actively employed, for inde-
pendent of the necessary transportation of provisions &c. to Tampa,
the entire failure of the Contractor to deliver provisions at this Post
renders it necessary to procure them from New Orleans.—
I have the honor to be Sir, with perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Servº
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
To/ BRIG: GEN THOMAS S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. Army. Wash-
ington City, D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt. D. E. Burch Pensacola—24 April 1824 22° April
1824 22–
[Enclosure]
Statement of Transportation Expenditures
Expenses incurred by the Quartermaster's department at Pensacola,
in vessel transportation from 25* November 1823 to 30° April 1824,
VIZ:
25. Nov. 1823—Charter of the Schooner Shields Capt.
Forsyth, to go to St. Marks & transport from thence to
Pensacola, a Company of Artillery . . . . . . . . . . $400.00
31 Decº-"—Charter of do. do. to transport Milº Stores &
troops from Pensacola to Tampa Bay & bring from St.
Marks a cargo of public property . . . . . . . . . . 1260. 00
30. Jan’ 1824—Paid to Capt. M. Kigless freight of Subs:
Stores on the Schooner Henrietta from N. Orleans to
Pensacola . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.00
* Answered Apr. 23, 1824, authorizing the disposal of the Amelia (NA, WD,
QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6).



916 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
30”—do—”—Paid to Capt. W. Blunt, for do. on the
Schooner Gen. Call from do. to do. . . . . . . . . . 170.25
21* Febº-"—Charter of the Brig Mary, of Selby & Cº to
transport a cargo of building materials & other stores
from Pensacola to Tampa Bay . . . . . . . . . . . 700.00
29"—”—”—Paid freight to Mr F. H. Nisbet of Sub: Stores
on board the Sloop Boston Packet from Pensacola to
Tampa Bay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77.00
13" March—”—Freight of Subs: Stores on Schooner Shields,
Capt. Forsyth from New Orleans to Pensacola . . . . 215.25
27—"—”—Charter of the Schooner Florida Capt. Day to
transport a cargo of Subs: & Q Mrs: Stores from Pen-
sacola to Tampa Bay & to bring a Cargo of Mil: Stores
from St. Marks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 800. 00
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3637. 50
Deduct Expenses &c. of Schooner Florida for the
same period, viz.:-Wages of Captain & hands
including their subsistence . . . . . . . . . $1000. —
Wear & tear of the vessel, extra expenses thereon
& including interest of the money . . . . . 740
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
1740. 00
Amount which would have resulted in favor of having had
a Suitable vessel owned by the public for the above
period Bal: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1897. 50
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO ROBERT MITCHELL
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book A]
POST OFFICE DEPART 3 Apl. 1824
ROBERT MITCHELL P. M. Pensacola
SIR, I have received yours of the 9” of March,” and thank you for
the vigilance you evidence in the discharge of your duties. The
postmaster at Claiborne shall be written to on the subject of Mail
bags &c and required to be more attentive in future.*
I consider the law of 1810,” under which you commenced a prose-
cution against Capt. Herskill, of doubtful construction—indeed I
23 Not found.
** Present, same date, addressed to the postmaster at Claiborne, Ala., with-
out naming him, and cautioning against the use of damaged mail bags. Na-
thaniel Dodson was appointed postmaster at Claiborne on Apr. 9, 1823, and
was succeeded by John Bonner on Aug. 17, 1824 (NA, PO, Recs. of P. M.
Appts., Bk. 4).
* Approved Apr. 30, 1810, 2 STAT. 592–604.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 917
rather incline to the opinion, that the justice has given the correct
construction, tho' contrary to that which has heretofore been given
by this Dep"—My attention has been directed to a general revision
of the Post Office law, and among others, in january last, I suggested
to the proper Committee, the propriety of changing the provision of
the law on this subject.”
J M*LEAN
WILLIAM H. ALLEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)
BALTIMORE April 5* 1824
SIR I sometime ago had the pleasure of being a short time in
your company at Washington and from the impression I then
received of your character I feel embolden'd in addressing you on a
very delicate and to me unpleasant subject. In fact I wish to obtain
your friendly interference in my favor for the purpose of of being
appointed land commissioner in East Florida in the place of M*
Hamilton who has lately resigned. Your friend Judge Archer * is
my particular friend & I will forward his recommendation of me to
you in a day or so. I have served several years in the legislature of
Maryland and from neglecting my profession & the expences incident
to political life am now extremely poor. I can get I think the recom-
mendation of Gen' Winder * & am sure I could get the hearty one
of the Governor & the executive council of this state I could refer
you to Dº Kent * & Dr Mitchel of the house of rep” from Maryland
& to M' Hayward & Dº Spence with both of whom I have served in
the legislature of this state. Should I have the fortune to be appointed
as commissioner I should arduously devote my time & what little
powers I possess to the just legal & expetious settlement of such
claims as might be made before the board
Should you be able Sir consistently with your feelings to assist me
in my endeavors to obtain the above-mentioned appointment you
would superadd the sentiment of gratitude of high respect and
admiration and confer a favor which should ever be in my power
should be zealously reciprocated *
* See post, p. 929.
26 Stevenson Archer, former Representative in Congress from Maryland, wrote
to the Secretary of War, Apr. 6, 1824, on behalf of Allen (NA, SD, Applications).
27 William Henry Winder, a former Adjutant General and Inspector General
of the U. S. Army.
28 Joseph Kent and other Representatives in Congress from Maryland, including
George E. Mitchell, John S. Spence, Raphael Neale, William Hayward, Jr., Isaac
McKin, Peter Little, Henry R. Warfield, and John Lee, and Sen. Samuel Smith
(Md.) signed a recommendation to the President, Apr. 7 (NA, SD, Applications).
29 See post, p. 948, n. See also Allen's commission, Aug. 12, 1824, post, vol.
XXIII.



918 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
believe me Sir Sincerely & respectfully yours
W H ALLEN
[Addressed] The Hon” J C Calhoun Secy of War Washington
[Postmarked] Baltimore M*Apr 5 free
|Endorsed] 5. April 1824. Allen W. H. Solicits app" of Commissioner
to settle Claims to lands in East Florida Secry of State Submitted
for the cons" of the Com" of the Gen' Land Office J. C. C.
GEORGE M. BROOKE TO THE COMMANDING GENERAL
[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd.:LS)
CAMP ON HILLSBOROUGH BAY 6* April 1824
GEN' Since my Communication of Feby 3** this, is the only
oppertunity which has been offered me of addressing you (the arrival
of Major Wright * by Water) The Troops Continue in good health,
are well supplied with provisions, and are industriously engaged in
the erection of quarters. Cap' D. E. Burch of the Quarter Masters
Dep" at Pensacola, has facilitated by every means in his power, the
Completion of our barracks, by Complying most promptly with all
the necessary requisitions.—By the middle of this month, the men will
be in their quarters, which are the best log buildings I have ever seen,
both for health & duration the rooms being large, high, airy, and as
well put together as possible, the whole 260 feet in length and 12 feet
from floors to the loft. We have Completed the quarter Masters &
Commissary's Store houses, bake house, The Hospital will be finished
(viz two blocks of it) in ten days. The officers quarters have also
been Commenced, Considering, that the first tree was felled on the
20* Feb” I have every reason to be pleased with the great industry
of the officers and Men, besides this each Company has a large garden,
now in fine Cultivation.—I must beg leave to renew my application for
two Ass" Surgeons for should any epidemic disease take place here,
we should be in a most deplorable situation. I wrote to the Surgeon
Gen' on this subject early in Jan’ ” but, he has not done me the
honor of ever answering my letter, Should we be unfortunate enough
to have the Yellow fever, I shall feel myself relieved from all respon-
sibility in as much, as I have written repeatedly to the Surgeon Gen.'
on this subject.
The Indians appear to me, to be more & more displeased at the
Treaty, and still more so, at the running of the line, and I am not
unapprehensive of some difficulty. They have an idea, that the
* Ante, p. 844.
* Thomas Wright.
* NA(WD, SG, Lets. Recd.).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 919
nation, is about to go to war with Great Britain, and was it to be the
the case, they would most certainly join our enemy. In Consequence
of its having been reported to me that a large number of Indians,
were seen near the Camp, after tattoo, who appeared to have an
intention of taking us by surprise, the Troops, were put under arms,
and Continued so during the night large paroles were also sent out
some distance, but no Indian was discovered. As the Man who
reported it to me, come running in, and stated that he had seen them
not more than 15 Minutes before, an attack was calculated on most
Certainly. The officers and Men turned out with an alacrity and
spirit, which did them great credit, and I feel a Confidence, that no
Indian force in this Country could meet us, with the least prospect of
success, although they can bring at least 700 warriors into the field.
There is an absolute necessity of some field pieces here, and I beg,
that the Commdg officer at Pensacola may be directed to have
transported to this place, two six pounders, with a proper supply of
Ammunition and implements—We have discovered that this place,
has been a depot for pirates, finding the other day, the remains of
three unfortunate persons who from the shot holes, in their hats, and
from stakes set in the ground, with ropes attached to them & the
appearance of fire, that some of them had been shot and others burnt
to death. There were near them two six pound shot, and an old
looking glass. From the ropes and the burnt wood, it appears it
must have been done about four or five Months since.
I have the Honor to be very respectfully Yr: Mo: obt: Servt
GEO. M. BROOKE Col. USA Comg
P. S. A Copy of this letter has been addressed to Gen" Scott.
To/MAJOR GENL. JACOB. BROWN Commander In Chief Washington
City D. C.
[Addressed] To/ Major Genl. Jacob. Brown Commd in Chief
Washington City D. C [Postmarked] Pensacola April 30 On. Service 25
[Endorsed] Camp on Hillsboro: Bay 6 Ap' 1824 Col Geo M Brooke
4 Rg Inf Reports on the state of his Command. Well supplied with
provisions & afforded every facility by the Q Masters Department—
quarters finished Gardens cultivated—Wants Medical Aid. Sur"
General informed. Indians seem hostile wants two. 6 pounders. the
Camp has the appearance of a peratical depot. Requests leave of
absence. May 20, 1824 These communications having been infor-
mally addressed to Gen' head Quarters, are respectfully referred to
Maj Gen" Scott Chs J Nourse Adj Gn' Col. Brooke has been notified
of the course which has been taken in regard to them.



920 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
JOHN FITZGERALD AND COMPANY, AND WILLIAM H.
HUNT TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:LS)
PENSACOLA 9th April 1824.
HON JOHN QUINCY ADAMS Secretary of State Washington
SIR. The establishment of the Floridian having been sold by Mess"
John Fitzgerald & Cº and transfered to W. Hazell Hunt and your
instructions requiring that the Department might be notified of such
an event without delay we address you in conformity.
The newspaper called the “Floridian” has been discontinued and
“The Pensacola Gazette and West Florida Advertiser” is established
in its place; and it is hereby agreed that all the compensation due to
both establishments, for the publication of the Laws of the United
States, passed during the first session of the 18th Congress may be
paid to Wm Hazell Hunt.*
We are, Sir, Respectfully Yr: Obt: Servts
JNO: FITZGERALD & Co.
W. HAZELL HUNT
[Addressed] Hon. John Quincy Adams Secretary of State Washington
D. C. [Postmarked] Pensacola April 9 Free
[Endorsed] John Fitzgerald and C9 and W. H. Hunt. Pensacola
9 Apl. 1824. Publishing Laws. Recd 29* April.
SAMUEL AYRES TO JOSEPH ANDERSON
[NA:GAO, First Comptroller Treas., Letters Recd., Collectors, Fla.:ALS 33)
Custom House KEY WEST 10th. Apr. 1824
SIR. Having assumed the duties of Collector on my arrival here,
and of which the Department has been duly informed;" I now trans-
mit to your Office a return of the business transacted in the quarter
ending the 31 ultimo.
In pursuing the course I have done, I did So under the thorough con-
viction that it would meet the approbation of the Department; And
I shall continue to act until a Coll" shall arrive or until I receive in-
structions to the contrary—
In regard to the exactions Tonnage Duty and Light Money from
Vessels arriving from the Isle of Cuba & the Bahamas, I have been at
Some loss how to act; particularly with respect to the latter, And you
will perceive that in two instances, Light Money has not been
* No reply found. See Hunt to the Sec. of State, Sept. 3, 1824, post, vol. xxiii.
* In the same place are letters of Aug. 23, 1823, Oct. 1, 1823, and Jan. 7, 1824
relative to his account as inspector of customs at Key West and his preparations
to go to that place.
* Ante, p. 852.



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 921
charged—I have rented a building for a Custom House, for one
quarter from the 1st. March, not being able to rent for a shorter
period & even that with considerable difficulty—I have likewise
purchased a Boat for the Revenue Service & employed as many
Seamen as is at this time necessary—You will perceive by the State-
ment herewith rendered, that I have retained the fees & commission
accruing to the Collector; thinking that they will of course be allowed
me. The Salary I have made no mention of; leaving that entirely to
your decision.
I would request of you, if I can be permited to return home in the
last of June or the first of July, as it my purpose to be at home during
the Sickly Season at this place; Say, the months of July, August
& Sept".”
You will be pleased to any communications for me to the care of
Mr. Edwin Lee of Norfolk, or if they could be Sent via Baltimore to
the care of Mess" Martin, Knight & Co. of Havana, the chance of
receiving them would be much better, as an opportunity Seldom
offers from Norfolk.
In my letter to the Hon. Secretary, of the 20th. Feb.” I informed him
of the want of a Set of the U. States Laws at this Office; and at the
Same time Suggested the propriety of appointing an Insp. to reside
at Key Vacus with power to enter & clear vessels; As that place
Serves as a general rendevous for all vessels to winward, and which
(owing to the distance from this place) Serves too often as an excuse
for not entering and clearing out here.—
I have the honor to be, Sir; Your Most Obt. Serv't.
S. AYRES
TO THE HON. COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY
[Addressed] Hon. Joseph Anderson Comptroller of the Treasury
Washington City
[Endorsed] Key West Ap! 10 1824 S. Ayres, Inspector stating that
he had acted as Collector; enclosing certain returns; respecting com-
pensation; leave of absence &cc”
* Ayres departed at some undiscovered date, leaving as acting collector, one
McIntosh, from whom William Pinkney (vol. xxi.II, July 10, 1824) received the
transfer of the property of the office (Pinkney to Joseph Anderson, Oct. 28, 1824,
NA, GAO, First Comp., Lets. Recd., Collectors, Fla.).
* Ante, p. 852.



922 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla.:ALS sº)
PENSACOLA, April. 11” 1824
Hon” JoHN. C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
SIR Col" Humphryes the Indian Agent arrived here a few days
since accompanied by Neamathala and four of his chiefs—who came
on a visit to me for the purpose of assertaining whither they would be
permitted to visit Washington. I informed them that you had been
written to on this subject and they must patienly wait for your answer
I recommend earnestly that Neamathala and some of his principal
chiefs, should be allowed to visit the city,
[Your letter of the 24" of last December * relating to the removal of
the Indians, and also a copy of your letter of the same date on the same
subject to Col" Humphreys * did not come to hand untill three days
since It is now too late to remove the Indians untill September,
Time will be important if any regard is to be paid to economy,”
Contracts must be made for the supply of the indians, and some time
must elapse before they can be executed beside their are other arrange-
ments, for tools stock &c. required by the treaty—which the indians
expect will be faithfully and punctually provided—To attempt a
hasty removeal of these people, before we are ready on the part of the
Goverment to execute what we are bound by Treaty to perform,
would not only increase the dissatisfaction of the Indians, but greatly
enhance, the expence. The Indians would also lose their present
crops which are now planted; and no possitive disadvantage can result
from this delay.
In addition to what is stated, I will add that the boundary of the
country intended for their occupation, has not yet been finally settled.
Co" Gadsden wrote to me from Charlotte Harbour, that the
lands in the Peninsula are by no means equal to his expectation—
The Northern line of the Indian boundary will I presume be extended
according to the Treaty
Co" Humphreys meet with Co" Gadsden on his way from St.
Augustin to Pensacola and conversed with him on these subjects I
am happy to say that his opinions are dicidedly with me, in the vieus
I have expressed on these subjects—
It will be less expensive to furnish the Indians with Beef, than
pork, The Beef can be driven to the several points requirid, for even
3° Extract printed in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs, II, 616.
40 NA(OIA, SW Lets. Sent, Bk. F); printed A. S. P., op. cit., p. 615.
* A letter from Humphreys to DuVal, Apr. 7, 1824, advised that the season was
too far advanced for removal; preparations were not sufficiently forwarded; and
the Indian boundary was not completed (NA, OIA, Lets. Recd., Seminoles;
printed A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 616–617).



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TO R Y 923
less than the Pork could be purchased for in New Orleans. Con and
Salt or Flour if corn can not be obtained, will be had cheapest in
New Orleans, I am satisfied that many of the Indians will leave the
Seminoles and settle among the creeks before the next fall, It is my
opinion that not more than fifteen hundred, will remove into the
boundary—this opinion has been formed on my own observation
and intelligence, derived from the Indians while I was with them
during last winter—Whatever order you may deem proper to give,
either as to the removal or manner of supplying the Indians shall
be promptly executed, should you intertain any vieus different from
my own. If the arrangements are left to my discression, the most
rigid economy consistent with the fair and just execution of the
Treaty, will govern me in the expenditure of the funds which may
be transmitted for this object—Jº The authority to draw on your
department for funds—cannot be used to advantage, in Florida for
large sums—The circulating medium, of this Territory, is principaly
composed of the Bank paper of Alabama Georgia and North Carolina
—which are not current in New Orleans—I would therefore suggest
the propriety of making the Bank of New Orleans the Deposit of
the funds to be used in Florida, so that from time to time I could
check for the money. I should not like to have a large sum in my
hands—for I have no place of safety—to secure it, and accident or
robbery might render me responsible, I hope by the active, assistance
of Co" Humphreys—on whom I can confidently reley—that the
Treaty will be carried into effect for much less then was expected,
If you have not appointed a sub agent, in the place of Capt. Pelham,
I recommend Sargent Ayres belonging to the command at St. Augus-
tin This man attracted my particular attention during the last year
and he is cirtainly one of the finest soldiers in our Army, he is sober,
active, sensible, and completely a man of business—He has always
enjoyed the confidence and esteem of his superior Officers—This
mans appointment would render a service to our country—Ayres
never applied to me on this subject, and nothing but his uncommon
merit could induce me to recommed him to you, It is important, that
the person who may be appointed, should receive your order forthwith
to report himself either to Co" Humphreys or myself, as may be
most convenient, for his services will be more in demand this summer
than at any time thereafter *
I have the honour to remain your Obt. Sev"
Wm P. DUVAL
[Endorsed] Pensacola—11.Ap' 1824. His Excelly Wºº P. DuVal.
Indians wish permission to visit the Seat of Government, & recom-
mends that it be granted. Relative to the removal of the Indians—
42 Brackets are on the MS.
* Answered post, p. 939.



924 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
The boundary of the Country for the Indians not yet completed—
Suggests the least expensive mode of furnishing provisions—Thinks
not more than 1500 Indians will move. Relative to funds & the mode
of obtaining them—Recommends Sergeant Ayres for Sub-agent—
& that he be ordered to report forthwith for duty—
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DANIEL E. BURCH
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
Ap" 12" 1824
CAP* D. E. BURCH Ass" Q M Pensacola
SIR. On the 1* ins' I received your letter dated the 7" Ult”,”
The Secretary of War, to whom your letter was submitted, approves
intirley of your views in relation to the road from Pensacola to Fort
Mitchell, and directs that you commence your operations should the
season not be so far advanced as to endanger the health of the troops,
so soon as your other duties will allow of your absence from Pensacola.
The route by Sherlocks ferry, for the reasons which you have stated,
is considered preferable to that by Beelers ferry.
You will make such a road as to admit, with facility, the movement
of carraiges, carts, waggons, &" and cause substantial wooden bridges
to be erected over all the principal streams on the route—which shall
not require ferries. The Commanding Officer at Pensacola will be
instructed to furnish a Subalterns Command for this service, which
will be under your orders.”
It is desirable that the work be performed as early, and at as little
expense as possible.
I am Sir, &"
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO ISAAC CLARK
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
April 14* 1824
CAP* ISAAC CLARK Ass" Q' Mº Tampa Bay.
SIR. By an act of Congress approved the 28" of February last,”
the President was authorized to cause a road to be surveyed and
marked out from Cape Sable the South Western extremity of Florida,
to the point where the road from Pensacola to Sº Augustine will cross
the Suwanna river. You have been selected for this service, and you
* Ante, p. 855.
* Apr. 14, 1824 (NA, WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 6). Acknowledged by William
Martin, Cant. Clinch, May 7, 1824 (NA, WD, AGO Lets. Recd. M 68). See
post, p. 968.
*64 STAT. 6.



FLO RI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 925
will commence your operations so soon as the season shall permit—
You will select the most direct practicable route between the points
named, passing by Charlotte Harbour and the post at Tampa Bay.
The route must be marked by cutting, or as it is called in the Western
Country blazing, trees at convenient distances, so that the troops
ordered to open the road, may trace the route without the aid of a
guide.
The Commanding Officer at Tampa Bay, will be instructed by an
order from the Adj" Generals office to place under your command a
Subaltern Officer, and such number of non Com" Officers and privates
as may be necessary. You will employ guides, and provide the
number of horses, mules, tools & instruments which the service may
require. Having completed the survey, you will make to this Office
a detailed report of your proceedings, so soon as you possibly can,
taking care to note practicularly the nature of the country, the
quality of the land, the number and condition of the Indians in the
vicinity of the proposed road—the state of the several streams on the
route, whether it be practicable to construct bidges over them, or
whether ferries be necessary, and any other circumstances which
you may think interesting.
You will also make a detailed estimate of the funds necessary to
complete the proposed road, and forward it to this office.”
I am Sir, &"
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR. April 20, 1824
To HIS EXCELLENCY, WILLIAM P. DUVAL Pensacola.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 25” Ultimo,” and the estimate
of expenses on account of Indian Affairs within your agency for the
two first quarters of the year 1824, amounting to 2,645$, which is
admitted—Also your letter of the 26* ultimo,” accompanied by your
account for your Superintendency. You have charged, I find, since
the appointment of the agent, for three months, at the rate of 1500$
per Annum. This is contrary to the decision of this Department as
communicated to you in my letter of the 25" Oct' last.” That
* Answered post, p. 944. Clark wrote again on Sept. 9, 1824 that he would
need funds to begin the survey, which would be delayed some days after October
1—the country between Hillsborough Bay and the Suwannee being flooded and
the rainy season still continuing (loc. cit.). See Clark to the Quartermaster
General, Dec. 13, 1824, post, vol. xxiii.
* Registered in NA (OIA, Lets. Recd.) but not found.
** Ante, p. 908.
* Ante, p. 774. . Cf. post, vol. xxiii, Jan. 11, 1826.



926 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
decision was, that an allowance at the rate of 1500$ per Annum would
be made during the period prior to the appointment of an agent; but
750$ was fixed as the sum to be allowed after his appointment. The
circumstance of the absence of the Agent will not justify any advance
upon this latter sum.
I have directed the allowance to be made on your account in con-
formity with this view, and the instructions of my letter of the 25*
Oct' last.
It may be proper to remark that there is no allowance made by law,
other than for your Salary as Governor, for the performance of your
duty as Superintendent, but it is made as a matter of justice out of
the appropriation on account of Indian Affairs—no allowance, of
course, can be made by the Department, but to cover the expense
which may be incidentally incurred in the performance of such duty.
If you think the allowance to you is not sufficient to cover your expense,
the Department has no objection to commute it for such sum as may
be actually expended in the performance of your duty, on a statement
being made in the usual form accompanied by the proper vouchers.”
I have the honor &c. &c J. C. CALHOUN.
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR. April 20° 1824
To HIS EXCELLENCY WILLIAM P. DUVAL, Pensacola.
SIR, Reports having reached this Department through the public
prints, and very recently thro' an official Channel, stating that private
individuals, as well as those who have been licensed to trade with the
Indians, carry on a system of trapping and hunting in violation of the
regulations established by the intercourse law of 1802*; and the
licensed traders in direct violation of the express conditions on which
they have been licensed under the act of 6* May 1822,” I have to call
your attention particularly to this subject. You will therefore
immediately instruct the Indian Agents within your superintendency
rigidly to enforce the intercourse law against all violations of its pro-
visions, as well against those who are not, as those who are licensed to
trade with the Indians—the latter of whom not only put at defiance the
act of Congress but also the express provisions of their bonds, under
which they hold their license.”
I have delayed calling your attention to this subject under the
impression that Congress would act on it; but believing that the Session
* Acknowledged post, p. 964.
* Approved Mar. 30, 1802, 2 STAT. 139–142.
58 8 STAT. 682–683.
* This instruction was also sent to Governor Cass, of Michigan Territory, and
to Governor Miller, of Arkansas Territory.



F L OR I. D A T E R R IT OR Y 927
is now too far advanced to adopt any provisions in relation to it, and
the season of trade being now about to commence, I have thought any
further delay unadvisable.”
Copies of this letter have been transmitted to the Commanding
Officer within your agency * directing their co-operation in enforcing
the regulations of the Government on those subjects.”
I am &c. &c.
J. C. CALHOUN.
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA, W. F. April 22° 1824.—
GENERAL, I have the honor to report that on the 19* Inst. I pur-
chased the Schooner Florida for $.4000.-, payable at your office, as
per the enclosed contract,” upon the receipt of the Bill of Sale. The
Wessel has been delivered to me as the property of the United States,
but as Capt. Day * could not make a complete Bill of Sale, he has
forwarded it, signed by himself, to his partner, who will sign and
transmit it to you; when it shall have been received I request it may
be forwarded to me;—a copy of it is herewith enclosed for your infor-
mation. I have sent her to New Orleans to be coppered, and on her
return,” I shall have full employment for her for some months to
come; as it is now pretty well ascertained that the Brig Mary, which
sailed from here on the 9” March last laden with Building Materials
& other Military Stores; and also having $.200, funds, on board on
account of the Quartermaster's department, has been either lost at
sea or captured by pirates—most probably the latter as the Florida
fell in with a Schooner off Tampa which the Captain took to be a
piratical cruiser—as she had not been heard of at Cantonment Brooke
so late as the 8* Inst.—The failure of this Brig has occasioned serious
delay in building the Barracks at Tampa. I shall wait however only
a few days longer, and then, if no tidings of her be received, forward
additional Supplies.”
** An Act of Congress approved May 25, 1824 (4 STAT. 35), required Indian
agents to designate places at which trade was to be carried on and to require all
traders to trade at those places. A circular addressed to territorial governors,
superintendent William Clark, and Indian agents by the Secretary of War, June 5,
1824, directed the enforcement of the foregoing provision and requested a report
relative to the places designated for trade (NA, OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1).
56 Not found.
* Acknowledged, post, p. 964.
48 Present.
* James Day.
* Burch reported on May 17, 1824 the return of the Florida, the coppering
having been done for $900 (NA, WD, QMG Letters Recd.).
** Cf. post, p. 930.



928 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. P. A P E R S
I enclose herewith a copy of my invoice" to Lieut. Page Act. Ass.
Quarter Master at Tampa,” of the articles shipped by me on the
Mary corresponding with the quantities in the entries of vouch: Nº 33,
Abs: B. C. and Nº. 13, Abs: E. c. also my certificate of the money
forwarded as entered in vou: N° 62, Abs: B., in my accounts for the
first Quarter of the Current year, and beg that they may be duly
admitted to my credit in the Settlement of my accounts, in like manner
as if the Stores & money had arrived without accident at their place
of destination. In corroboration of my certificate touching the
property, I enclose you the contract made with the owner of the Brig
& the triplicate Bill of lading, which however only specifies the
quantity of packages without regard to Contents. The money was
enclosed in a letter to Lieut. Page and not known to the Captain.-I
am unable at the present moment to afford any other proof as to the
quantity of each article forwarded & of the money being sent, but
my own certificates;–Capt. Crupper * was knowing to the fact but
he has left the place. I will endeavor however to procure his testi-
mony, in case it should be hereafter required.—
The Schooner Florida is a Strong, new vessel, built Suitable for the
coast; and is moreover a remarkably fast sailer, hence I think such
an accident is not likely to occur soon, again.-
All the public property is now removed from Fort St. Marks; but I
understand from the Commanding Officer at Cantonment Clinch, that
Governor Duval has this day made a Requisition on him for a com-
pany to be stationed there temporarily, that is, until the Indians
remove to the limits assigned them, which cannot now be done before
the next ensuing fall Season.—
The Transport Schooner amelia being no longer required for the
public service in the Quartermaster's department, I sold her on the
20*. Inst: for $.650, at private Sale, having previously caused her
value to be appraised & certified by competent and disinterested
persons. I obtained the highest valuation for her, one of the persons
having estimated her to be worth only $.550.”—
I am Sir, With perfect respect Yr Mo. Ob. Serv"
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q' Mº
To/ BRIG: GEN" THOMAS S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. Army, Wash-
ington City, D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt. Dan' E. Burch Pensacola April 22, 1824 May 13,
1824
9i Not present.
* John Page.
* Micajah Crupper.
* Acknowledged May 18, 1824, with the reminder that the bill of sale should
have been made out to him as the agent of the United States (NA, WD, QMG
Lets. Sent, Bk. 6). - - - - - - - - -



F L OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 929
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO ROBERT MITCHELL
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book D]
POST OFFICE DEP" April 234 1824
ROB" MICHELL P M Pensacola W F
SIR. That part of my circular, which required the oath of printers
to accompany their return of newspapers sent by mail, was stricken
out before the circular was forwarded to Postmasters, though retained
in the publication of it in the newspapers.
The object of obtaining printers certificates is quite as much to
accommodate them, and facilitate the circulation of their papers, as
to aid the Dep" in its operations. The law requires them to write in
every bundle of papers the number which it contains chargeable with
postage; and to do this when they Send to a great number of different
Post Offices in many instances proves a Serious inconvenience to them,
and when the issuing of their papers is at the last moment before the
departure of the mail, this additional labour, and the time necessarily
occupied by the Postmaster in taking an account of them, will often
delay their papers till the departure of another mail.
To prevent all this delay, if printers will furnish Postmasters with
a list of the number of papers Sent to each Office, certifying to the best
of their knowledge its correctness they need not mark the number
upon each bundle, and the Postmaster need make no delay to take
the account but to forward them as they are put in his Office, and
forward the printers certificate for the account of newspapers Sent
from his Office. If the printer refuses to do this (which I think he
will not, after understanding the object) you will Still receive and
forward his papers, provided he endorses the number upon every
bundle, and you will yourself keep the account of the number to each
Office, but enter none of them upon your post-bills.
You will keep your account of newspapers received for delivery at
your Office, by charging yourself in advance at the beginning of each
quarter for the quarterly amount of all papers regularly coming to
your Office; and for such as come occasionally, you will charge your-
self at the time of their arrival, at the end of the quarter enter the
whole amount in your aſc current.”
J M*LEAN
* See post, p. 932.
801867—57–60



930 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GEORGE M. BROOKE TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
CAMP ON HILLSBOROUGH BAY 25* April 1824
GENERAL. I had the Honor, as well as the satisfaction, to receive
your two letters, of the 16** & 20th January,” on the 16th day of
this month, by a Brig from Pensacola (loaded with materials for this
post,) which had, had, a passage of thirty five days, or they would
have been, more promptly acknowledged.
I am also gratified to learn that you had approved of my engaging
the transportation to this place, in the absence of Captain Burch,
and further, that you had directed him to supply us, with evry thing
necessary, to make us comfortable. From the moment of Capt. Bs.
arrival from St Augustine, he has done evry thing which could facili-
tate the movement, and the promptitude with which, he has since
met the necessary requisitions, deserves my warmest acknowledge-
ments. In consequence of the landing the stores, on our first arrival
here, and the cutting out, of the thickest under growth, I have ever
seen, for the purpose of fixing the scite, we were not enabled to go
into the woods til the 20" Feb, on which day, the first tree was felled.
Since that period, we have completed, a very fine comissy & quarter
masters store house, an excellent bakehouse four blocks, for the mens
barracks, (two rooms each block) 25 feet by 20, 12 feet, from the
floors, to the joists, raised, on Blocks 3 feet from the ground, the
whole under one roof & shingled between the intervals of each block
(being 20 feet) & with a portico of 12 feet wide, surrounding the
building. The men will occupy this building to day. which is now
comfortable, but will require, more finishg, which can be done at our
liesure. This I think is the best place for quarters in a southern
climate, particularly in so low a latitude as this, the rooms, being well
aired, and shaded. The officers quarters & hospital built on the same
plan, are all up, and will be completed, by the first of June, pro-
vided the brick & some more plank which we have required, arrive
in time. I have searched in evry direction near us, for clay to make
brick, or stone, for the chimneys, which I am unable to find, and
indeed the Indians tell me, there is none in the country. This post,
in its first establishment, may be more expensive, than the Govern-
ment probably expect, but when once completed, no other expence
can be incurrq than the common contingent expences of all posts.
It is absolutely necessary, that evry precaution should be taken, to
prevent disease, but I cannot feel less than very apprehensive of
being visited by some epidemic. Should it occur, neither the officers,
* NA (WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6), approving his transportation arrange-
ments and informing him of the appointment of Capt. Isaac Clark as assistant
quartermaster at Tampa Bay.
07 Loc. cit.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 931
or men, the Government, or Nation, can say, but what evey thing
such has been done, which could save us from such a fatality & scourge.
I have also taken into consideration, that the reasons, which induced
the establishement of this post, must exist for a long period, and that
of course it will be permanent. Besides this it will be found vey
useful, as a depot, for the troops to be employed in cutting the roads
to Florida point, and a point on the atlantic, both for supplies &
their sick.
The water here is not so good, as we can wish, and I shall be
compelled to dig [MS. torn] wells, or bring water from a very good
spring, about a mile from us (lately found) in bored pine aqueducts.
In digging the wells, I have found the water so near the surface,
(but vey bad) that I could not free them by buckets, so, as to dig
deeper, I have therefore sent, to Captain Burch for one pump com-
plete, and a pump borer, with which we could make more pumps if
we should find the water better, at a greater depth, or by the aqueduct,
as might be found best.”
I am General with great respect your mo: obt: Servt.
GEO. M. BROOKE Col. USA Comg
Toſ BRIG* GENL. THOMAS. S. JESSUP Q. M. Genl Washington City
[Addressed] Toſ. Brig" Genl. Thomas. S. Jessup Quarter Mas: Genl
Washington City D. C. [Postmarked] Pensacola May 14 on Service
Free
[Endorsed] Col G. M. Brooke Camp on Hill" Bay April 25, 1824
June 3, 1824
THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO DELEGATE CALL
[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 6]
April 26* 1824
HON R. K. CALL House of Rep"
SIR, In reply to your letter of the 20" instant * in relation to the
claims of W* King, P. Prieto, John Dominques and F. Morino, for tim-
ber cut by the U. States troops off certain tracts of land near canton-
ment Clinch, belonging to them respectively, I have to observe, that
the supports which they should have to render them admissible are—
1. The proper proof of proprietorship
* Answered post, vol. XXIII, Aug. 17, 1824. Other letters from Brooke to the
Quartermaster General concerning the construction of Cantonment Brooke,
dated May 20, 1824, and Sept. 12, 1824, are in NA (WD, QMG Letters Recd.).
See also Brooke to the Commanding General, Apr. 6, 1824 (NA, WD, AGO Lets.
Recd.), printed, Fla. Hist. Quar., XXXI (Apr. 1953), 275–277, under date of Apr.
4, and Brooke to Henry Atkinson, Jan. 18, 1825, printed, ibid, pp. 277–278.
* Not found.



932 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. P.A. P. E. R. S.
2. The evidence of the timber being so cut by the United States'
troops—and
3. That the amount charged is the real damage sustained.
With the claims are now exhibited Certificates of the regular
Land Commissioners that the claimants have filed (with the exception
of King) their claims to the land—This has no bearing on either
point—And also certificates of the Arbitrators chosen by the Quarter
Master and the claimants, setting forth the amount of damage, which
corresponds with the charges. This is deemed insufficient evidence
on the third point, because the grounds of the assessment are not
set forth—and for ought that appears in the certificates the damage
may have been produced by other causes than those assigned
in the claims—and because it does not appear that the assessment
was made under oath.
The above requisites are stated in the order of their importance,
and therefore, until the first point be settled by the favourable de-
cision of the only legal authority, the Land Commissioners, in addition
to satisfactory evidence on the other two, it is obvious the claims
cannot be allowed.”
I am Sir, &"
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO JOHN BELLAMY
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book C]
POST OFFICE DEPART. 30th Apl. 1824
JOHN BELLAMY Sº Augustine Flor.
SIR I have yours of Apl 7” ” is the road between St. Augustine
& Pensacola, in such a situation as to warrant the beleif can be regu-
larly & expeditiously carried—is the road opened all the way, are the
water courses Bridged or provided with Ferry Boats. before I
decide upon the propriety of sending the mail on this route—I must
be inform’d, as to the practicability of the measure.”
- J Mo
** See Feb. 22, 1825, post, vol. xxiII.
70 Not found.
* See post, p. 942.



§
ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA
[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 49,199 (1824):DS)
Abstract of compensation to Grand and Petit Jurors for their attendance at a Superior Court held at Jacksonville for
the District of East Florida, and for their travel to and from the said Court. April Term 1824–
[April Term, 1824]
For Attendance For travel
Total Amount
Names Places of abode No of Amount. No of Amount *ºn for
Days Miles
Drs. Cts. Drs Cts Drs. Cts.
GRAND JURORS
Charles Seton Fernandina 3 3 75 140 7 10 75 | Chs Seton
Duncan H Campbell Do 3 3 75 140 7 10 75 D H Campbell
Francisco Ponce Do 3 3 75 140 7 10 75 | Franco D. Pons
John Harrison Amelia Island 3 3 75 140 7 10 75 | John Harrison
Samuel Harrison Do 3 8 75 140 7 10 75 | Sam! Harrison
Ephraim Harrison Do 3 8 75 || 140 7 10 75 | Ep” Harrison
Ferdinand D Me Donald Do 3 8 75 140 7 10 75 | Ferd D. MoDonald
John D. Waughn Spells Swamp 3 3 75 100 5 8 75 J. D. Waughn
Lewis Fleming Flemings Island 3 3 75 70 3 50 7 25 | Le Fleming
Wm H. G. Saunders Do 3 3 75 70 3 50 7 25 || W H G Saunders
Jacob Summerlin near St Marys river 3 3 75 60 3 6 75 | Jacob Sumerall
William Frink St Marys River 3 3 75 80 4 7 75 || William Frink
John Broward Nassau River 3 3 75 40 2 5 75 || John Broward
John G. Barrow St Marys River 3 3 75 60 3 6 75 || John G. Barrows
Andrew Branning Black Creek 3 3 75 50 2 50 6 25 | Andrew Braning
Stephen Eubank Nassau River 3 3 75 70 3 50 7 25 | Stephen Eubank
Charles Broward Do 3 3 75 50 2 50 6 25 | Ch: Broward



§
ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA
For Attendance For travel
Total Amount - -
Names Places of abode No of Amount No of Amount originº" for
Days Miles
Drs. Cts. Drs. Cts. Drs Cts.
GRAND JURORs—Con.
William Sterrett Nassau Neck 3 3 75 50 2 50 6 25 || William Sterrett
Seymour Pickett Six mile Creek 3 3 75 6 30 4 5 | Seymour Pieckett
Daniel Kemp St Johns River 3 3 75 10 50 4 25 | Daniel Kemp
Joshua Hickman Mulberry Grove 3 8 75 46 2 30 6 5 || Joshua Hickman
William Fitzpatrick Sr Cedar Point 3 | * 3 75 84 4 20 7 95 || Joseph Hill for William
K. Fitzpatrick
66 82 50 | 1826 91 30 173 80
PETIT JURORS–
Wm G. Dawson Jacksonville 5 6 25 6 25
Francis J Ross Do 3 3 75 3 75
Daniel C. Hart Jacksonville 4 5 5 Matt. H Phillips
Matthew H Phillips Do 4 5 5 Dan: C Hart
John D. Bludworth Do 3 3 75 3 75 J, D, Bludworth
Zach: L. Hogans Do 8 3 75 3 75 || Z. L. Hogans
Isaac Tucker near Do 4 5 6 30 5 30 | Isaac Tucker
Daniel Vaughn Amelia Island 5 6 25 140 7 18 25 Dan! Vaughan
Thomas Suarez Do 1 1 25 140 7 8 25 || J. P. Suarrice by Jº L.
Doggett
Peter Suarez Do 4 5 140 7 12 P. Suarez
Lewis Baily St Marys River 4 5 80 4 9 Lewis Bailey
Britton Knight Do 2 2 50 80 4 6 50 || Britton Knight



§
Charles Love
Hardy Lannier
George Branning
Elijah Higginbotham
Joseph Watts
Samuel Eigle
Jesse Turner
Burben L Lowther
William Walker
Lewis Thigpin
John Price
Do
Black Creek
Do
Little St Marys
Spells Swamp
Nassau Neck
Do
Boggy Swamp
Bells River
near Trout Creek
Six mile Creek
4 5 80 4 9
4 5 50 2 50 7 50
4 5 50 2 50 7 50
4 5 70 3 50 8 50
3 3 75 50 2 50 6 25
4 5 40 2 7
4 5 30 1 50 6 50
8 3 75 48 2 40 6 15
5 6 25 | 100 5 11 25
4 5 24 1 20 6 20
4 5 6 30 5 30
151 | 188 75 2960 | 1.48 336 75
DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA April Term 1824 ss.
I do hereby certify that the Jurors named in the foregoing abstract were duly summoned, and for their attendance
and mileage at this Term, are legally entitled to the compensation affixed to their names respectively—
Examined and allowed JOS LSMITH Judge &c
N° 1 Jurors Compensation to Jurors April Term 1824 Doll" 336.75
[Endorsed]
Charles Love
Hardy Lannier
George Braning
Elijah Higginbottom
Joseph B Watts
Samuel Eigle
Jesse Turner
B. L. Lowther
William Walker
Lewis Thigpin
John Price
Stated by WATERS SMITH Marshal.
JAMES STINGLE Clerk Sup' Court



§
ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF WEST FLORIDA
[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 48,058:DS)
[April Term, 1824]
Abstract of compensation to Grand & Petit Jurors, for their attendance at a United States District & Superior Court,
held at the Big Spring, in Jackson County for the District of West Florida, and for their travel to and from the said
Court at the April Term 1824.”
For Attendance
For travel
Total Amount - - J
Names Place of Abode No. of Amount. No. of Amount originals ºłł. º for
days miles
Dolls. Cts. Dolls Cts. Dolls Cts.
GRAND JURORS
1 Joseph Russ Jack” County 2 2 50 40 8 00 10 50 Joseph Russ
2 John M Pope sº 44 2 2 50 40 8 || 00 10 50 Jno M Pope
3 William S. Pope 44 44 2 2 50 40 8 || 00 10 || 50 W. S. Pope
4 John Trussel 44 44 2 2 50 70 14 || 00 16 || 50 Jn Trussell
5 John B. Roberts 44 44 2 2 || 50 70 14 || 00 16 || 50 John B. Roberts
6 James Erwin gº gº 2 2 50 70 14 || 00 16 || 50 James Ervin
7 Silas Wood 44 44 2 2 || 50 50 10 || 00 12 || 50 Silas Wood
8 James S. Murphy 44. 64 2 2 50 50 10 || 00 12 50 J S Murphy
9 Nathan Williamson 44 tº 2 2 50 50 10 || 00 12 50 Nathan Williamson
10 James B. Webb sº 44 2 2 || 50 7 1 | 40 3 || 90 James B. Webb
11 John Miller 44. 44 2 2 50 6 1 || 20 3 || 70 John Miller
12 William Miller -- ge 2 2 50 6 20 3 70 Wm Miller
13 Levin Brown 44 44 2 2 || 50 70 14 16 || 50 Leavin Brown
14 Isaac Brown 44 44 2 2 50 70 14 || 00 16 || 50 Isaac Brown
15 James Bright 44 44 1 1 || 25 5 1 || 00 2 25 Ja” Bright
16 Nicola H. Mitchell 4- 44 1. 1 || 25 5 1 || 00 2 25 N, H, Mitchell
30 167 || 30



§
PETIT JURY
his
1 Brinkley Lasiter Jackson Cty 2 2 50 6 1 | 20 3 || 70 Brinkley W Lasiter
mark
2 Jourdan Smith ºt 44 2 2 50 50 10 || 00 12 50 Jurdan Smith
3 Benj: Hambleton 44 44 2 2 50 50 10 || 00 12 || 50 Benj Hambleton
4 John Williams &g 44 2 2 50 50 10 || 00 12 50 John Williams
5 Anthony Burns 44 ag 2 2 || 50 5 1 || 00 3 || 50 Anthoy Byrns
6 John W. Minter ge 64 2 2 || 50 6 1 20 3 || 70 John W Minter
7 Wiley Blunt 44 44 2 2 || 50 45 9 || 00 11 50 Wilee Blount
his
8 William Lloyd & 4 44 2 2 50 58 11 || 60 14 || 10 William x Lloyd
mark
9 Mathew Marshal 46 44 2 2 || 50 45 9 || 00 11 50 Mathew Marshall
his
10 William C. Martin 44 44 2 2 || 50 50 10 || 00 12 50 William C. x Martin
mark
11 Claiborne Lacy ge 44 2 2 || 50 25 5 00 7 || 50 Claburn Lacy
12 William S. Mooring &g 44 2 2 || 50 45 9 || 00 11 50 W. S. Mooring
13 Owen Williams gº ge 2 2 || 50 50 10 || 00 12 || 50 Owen Williams
14 Jonathan Bunker 44 & 4 2 2 50 5 1 || 00 3 || 50 Jono Bunker
his
15 Joseph Brooks 44 44 2 2 || 50 70 14 || 00 16 50 Joseph x Brooks
mark
|
Doll's. 316 80
Deduct. overchd for mileage 120 | 90
$195 || 90
* Witnesses who attended this court included the following: Owen Williams, William S. Mooing, Thomas Goff, John Williams, Guthrey
Moore, Wilee Blount, James Robinson [his mark], Wealthy Robinson [his mark], Aaron Tisson [his mark], James B. Russ, Lewis Belin, Joseph
Singleton, William Russ, Thomas Russ, William S. Pope, and John M. Pope.



§
DISTRICT OF WEST FLORIDA April Term 1824 ss. Stated by WILLIAM SEBREE Marshal W. F.
I do hereby certify, that the Jurors named in the foregoing Abstract were duly Summoned, and for their attendance and
mileage, at this Term are legally entitled to the compensation affixed to their names respectively.
JoHN MILLER Clerk by W. HASELL HUNT DC
Examined and Allowed
H M BRACKENRIDGE Judge Sup' C* W. F.
[Endorsed] Abstract No 1. compensation to Grand & Petit Jurors April Term 1824



F L OR I D A T E R R ITO R Y 939
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR DUVAL
[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]
WAR DEPARTMENT May 34 1824
To HIS EXCELLENCY GOV* DUVAL
SIR I have received your two letters of the 11” ultimo " inclosing
a copy of your proposals for supplies to be furnished to the emigrant
Indians, also a letter from the agent Col" Humphreys to you.” I
wrote to you on the 8” ultimo 7" in reply to your letter of the 19th
March last " consenting to the wishes of Several of the Seminole
Indians to visit Washington—a copy of that letter I herewith enclose,
in the event of a miscarriage of the original. The reasons you assign
for delaying the removal of the Indians, are entirely satisfactory. You
will determine in your discretion, upon the proper time, in the ensuing
autumn, to begin this work of removal, and commence accordingly—
meanwhile the advertizing for the supplies will be delayed. When
you do advertize you will give notice at New Orleans, and Charleston,
as well as at S*Augustine. As to the kinds of provisions which may
be best, their selection is left to your discretion. The season for
removal being deferred 'til the ensuing Autumn, I will thank you
meanwhile, and as early as you can, to furnish me with an estimate of
the cost which is likely to attend upon the emigration, upon the best
data you may be able to command. A requisition for the amount will
be made on the Treasury in due time for you and the most favourable
arrangements made as to the place of deposit that can be commanded.
I am glad to learn that the amount will fall short of the Sum hitherto
estimated to carry this Treaty into effect. Your recommendation of a
Sub-agent is under consideration and will be acted on in due time. I
am favourably impress'd towards the Chief, Nea-ma-tha-la, and as he
will doubtless make one of the four who are authorized to visit Wash-
ington, he will have every attention paid to him which your representa-
tion of his rank and character entitles him to. I will cheerfully, if it
wou'd not be thought to weaken his influence among his people, by the
excitement of Jealousy, allot him a small annuity—of the propriety of
this from your better acquaintance with the disposition and temper of
these Indians you can best judge—or if it wou'd be more agreeable, I
see no objection to a purchase of his reservation, as you suggest,
provided it cou’d be done on reasonable terms. I think it very
* Ante, p. 922. The second letter of this date is printed, A. S. P., Ind. Affairs,
II, 616; the original has not been found.
* Dated Apr. 7, 1824; see ante, p. 922, n.
*NA (OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1).
* Ante, p. 904.



940 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
desireable that he shou'd accompany the emigrants—his influence as
you remark wou'd doubtless be very Salutary.”
I am very Respectfully &c J. C. CALHOUN
JOSEPH M. HERNANDEZ TO THE QUARTERMASTER
GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
S*AUGUSTINE 4* May 1824
DEAR SIR Your much esteemed favour of the 14* ulto,” accomp's
copy of the 4* Sec of a law of Congress authorizing the survey of
certain Roads in this territory,” is now before me & its contents
duly noticed. The late hour at which the mail arrived last evening, &
not being myself possessed of all the information you have been
pleased to require of me, will prevent my complyance untill next mail.
I hope it will then be in my power to make you a satisfactory reply.
The roads contemplated to be opend in this Territory must neces-
sarily prove of great advantage to the Nation. I trust you will think
as I do, knowing how much it is in your power to promote their early
accomplishment.—I notice with much pleasure that part of your
Letter in which you speak of your wish to make a settlement in this
Country, as I am inclined to believe you could not make choice of any
section of the United States which presents greater Agricultural ad-
vantages than this. There is a tract of excellent Hammock & Swamp
land immediately near the place where the town of New Smyrna was
to have been built which is offered for Sale. I will endeavour to
7 Answered post, p. 964. At the request of the Secretary of War, Gadsden
communicated to DuVal, May 5, 1824, information relative to the removal of the
Indians, the running of the boundary line, the furnishing of rations and tools,
favorable locations for settlements, and recommended the presence of a military
force (NA, OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla.). DuVal informed the Secretary of War,
June 21, 1824, of his intention to attend personally to the removal of the Indians,
and to contract for or procure provisions (NA, loc. cit.; printed, A. S. P., op.cit.; p.
618). He reported on July 22, 1824 the conclusion on that day of a contract with
Benjamin Chaires for furnishing rations to the Indians at Tampa Bay and on the
St. Johns River at or near the mouth of the Ocklawaha River (NA, loc. cit.; printed
A. S. P., op. cit., p. 620). On the same subject, see id. to id., Aug. 31, 1824 (NA,
loc. cit.; printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 621–622). DuVal transmitted on Nov. 2,
1824 the appointment of Samuel Garey as issuing agent on the St. Johns (NA,
loc. cit.; printed A. S. P., op. cit., p. 627). Following an effort by Charles Pindar
to collect a $500 payment which he stated Chaires had promised him for with-
holding his bid for supplying Indian rations in 1824, DuVal wrote McKenney an
explanation, Jan. 24, 1826, in which he stated that Pindar had nothing to do with
awarding the contract to Chaires (NA, loc. cit.).
77* Not found.
"b Approved Feb. 28, 1824 (4 Stat. 5–6), authorizing, in section 4), the surveying
and marking of a road from Cape Sable via Tampa Bay to the Suwannee River's
crossing of the proposed Pensacola-St. Augustine road, and the surveying and
marking of a road from Cape Florida to St. Augustine,



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 941
ascertain the terms on which it can be purchased & will acquaint you.
I would however prefer to have you settle more in my Neighbour-
hood, Say at Matanzas about thirty miles South of this City. The
lands there are equally good & in my estimation suitable either for
the culture of Cotton or Sugar Cane & with the advantage of having
an extended Range for Cattle both of good Pine barren & Savannah
land. The latter are indeed composed of very rich Soil, fol ming three
distinct stratum, the first is a pliable black Mould, 2" a Soil some what
of the consistancy of Clay, & the 3° of very Strong Marl. I ditched
thirty acres of it & found it all to be the Same; & I planted 9 acres of
it in Corn & three ef in Cotton as an experiment; the former I am
satisfied will do well, but, not the latter, as the Marl is Hatteh agreed
not favourable to that plant.—From the proximity of these Savan-
nahs to the waters of the head of the river Matanzas I am persuaded
they must have been originally Salt water Marshes & the Marl
bottoms formed from the decomposition of Oyster Shells.
If our Board of land Commissioners could act with more activity
in the adjudication of titles to lands, this Country would soon present
a very different aspect from what it now does.—There is always some
fatality attending our public concerns here. At present we have but
two Commissioners & one of them (Judge Blair, a truly good &
worthy character) is so very ill that he can scarecy attend to the duties
of the board, nor is he expected to be much longer for this world! !
his loss would be great to this Country.”—The titles to lands here
are not so bad as they have been represented, there are some ground-
less pretentions, such as the claims from British emigrants & others
who have forfeited their rights by abandonment & by a noncomplyance
of the conditions on which the land was granted to them. This class
of claims conflict much with the right of the legitimate owner, but,
were it not for the existance of these false claims, which under the
Spanish government would never have been brought forward, the
Gentlemen of the Bar wettk! must be with little or no employment; &
it is the dread of requiring their service which for some time will deter
both sale & purchase, at least untill the commissioners have adjudi-
cated on the claims,
With reference to my next permit me to close this with the assurance
of my being
Dear Sir with much esteem Your Ob Serv"
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
Excuse my English, it is some what unconnected.
N.B. from my present knowledge of the Country South of the
river Sn Lucie I fear I fear it will not be practicable to open a road
* See post, p. 953.



942 T. E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
from that River to Cape Florida: a water communication may be
effected with more facility & less expence to the Government.”
GENERAL THOMAS S. JESUP Q M Gen!
[Endorsed] Gen' Jos. M. Hernandes. St. Augustine May 4, 1824
Roads in Florida May 22, 1824
EDWARD JONES TO EZEKIEL JONES
[NA:TD, Lets. on RCS, Bk. O]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, May 7”. 1824.
EZEKIEL JONES Esqr. 1" Lieut. of the Cutter Florida, Scituate, Mass”
SIR. Herewith, you will receive a Commission as First Lieutenant
of the Revenue Cutter Florida, stationed at Key-West; to which place
you are requested to repair with as little delay as possible.
As you will receive Pay & Rations from the date of your Commission,
it is to be understood that, you will proceed to join the Cutter at your
own proper expense.”
I am, very respectfully, Your Obedt. Servt.
EDWARD JONES, Ch: Clk.
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO ROBERT MITCHELL
[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Cl
POST OFFICE DEP" May 22–1824.
ROB' MITCHELL P. M. Pensacola W. Flor—
SIR, You have a right, if you think it essential to the public interest
to detain the mail six hours, that replies to correspondents may, if,
necessary be given by the immediate or pending mail.”
- J. M*LEAN
COMMISSION OF ROBERT BUTLER AS SURVEYOR
GENERAL
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 24, 1824)
JAMES MONROE President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Confidence in the
Integrity, Diligence and Discretion of ROBERT BUTLER "of Tennessee,
"d See post, p. 985.
* No reply found.
7°See the Postmaster General to Penn, Sept. 17, 1924, post, vol. XXIII.
*0 Nominated and confirmed, May 24, 1924 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 387–888).
This was the same Butler, who, as Colonel in the U. S. Army, had taken possession
of East Florida under orders of Andrew Jackson in 1821. He was reappointed as
Surveyor General on Jan. 21, 1828, June 21, 1832, and June 11, 1836 (NA, SD,
Misc. Perm. Comms.). See July 9, 1824, post, vol. XXIII.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 943
I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the
Senate, do appoint him Surveyor of the Public Lands in the Territory
of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil
the duties of that Office according to law; and to Have and to Hold
the said Office with all the rights and emoluments thereunto legally
appertaining unto him the said Robert Butler, for the term of four
years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the
United States for the time being should be pleased sooner to revoke
and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty fourth day of May A. D. 1824; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
* Interest in this appointment had been exhibited for several years. Peter L.
Jackson, of Eatonton, Ga., was recommended to Sen. Freeman Walker (Ga.) by
Eli S. Shorter, of the same place, Jan. 23, 1821 (NA, SD, Applications). Jonas
Smith, of Point Pleasant, Va., applied to the President on Mar. 28, 1821 (loc. cit.),
and wrote on Apr. 5, 1823 to John McLean, Commissioner of the General Land
Office (NA, GLO, Misc. Lets. Recd.). Maj. Thomas Mitchell, of Athens, Ga.,
solicited the office in a letter to Josiah Meigs, Commissioner of the General Land
Office, Mar. 24, 1821, and on his behalf Stevens Thomas, of the same place wrote
to Meigs, same date (NA, SD, Applications). Richard H. Long, of Wilkes County,
Ga., was recommended in a letter from Milledgeville, Ga., May 15, 1821, signed
by Daniel Newman, C. B. Strong, D. G. Campbell, Matthew Talbot, David Webb,
and David Adams (loc. cit.). L. Forsyth, of Monroe County, Ga., was recom-
mended to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, June 8, 1824, by Rep.
Wiley Thompson of Ga. (NA, GLO, Misc. Lets. Recd.). A belated recom-
mendation in favor of James Gadsden was contained in a letter from Gov. DuVal
to the Secretary of War, July 12, 1824 (NA, OIA, Lets. Recd.). In NA (SD
Applications) are recommendations for the employment of certain men as sur-
veyors in the Territory of Florida. Peter L. Jackson was recommended in a letter
from S. W. Harris, of Eatonton, Ga., to Freeman Walker, Jan. 2, 1821. Jackson
was also recommended in a letter from Daniel Sturges to Sen. John Elliott (Ga),
dated at Milledgeville, Ga., Jan. 22, 1821, endorsed by Elliott, Charles W. Rogers
and C. B. Strong, the last two of Eatonton, Ga. Willis Roberts, of Cahaba, Ala.,
was recommended to the President by Rep. Gabriel Moore (Ala.), Mar. 8, 1822.
Joel Yancy applied to the Secretary of State from Lexington, Ky., Jan. 27, 1824.
Henry Washington wrote George Graham, Commissioner of the General Land
Office, from Washington, Miss., Apr. 26, 1824, and was recommended in a letter
from Charles Lawson, of Jackson, Miss., to the same official, May 25, 1824 (NA,
GLO, Misc. Lets. Recd.).



944 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
ISAAC CLARK TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
CANTONMENT BROOK Hillsborough Bay May 24* 1824
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your com-
munication of the 14" April 8% on the subject of Surveying the road
from Cape Sable to St Marys Georgia—Should my health be suffi-
ciently restored it will give me great pleasure to perform that Service,
in the mean time every arrangement will be made by the 1* of October
to have the Survey Completed, either by me or some Officer from this
Post, Should my health be too delicate to undertake it—
I arrived here Yesterday from Pensacola in the U S Schooner
Florida, she will Sail again tomorrow, you will therefore excuse me
from giving a detailed report of this place, the progress made in
building the Barracks Supplies &". I find the Quarters of the men
covered and temporary floors, to enable them to retire from the heat
of the Sun, the Officers are still in Tents
Col Brook informs me there is not a Suitable person in the Command
for a Clerk, it being absolutely necessary that I should have one,
I have employed a very intelligent Young Man who came on with
me from Pensacola on his way to St Augustine, he has consented to
remain a short time for $35 Per Month—I think for Forty Dollars
he would be induced to remain during the winter this Sum is much
less than is given in New Orleans or Pensacola He will be able to
attend to the Office during my absence on the Survey—I hope this
proceedure will meet your approbation and that I may be authorised
to employ him at $40 per month
I have the honor to be Sir with great respect Your Obt Servt
I. CLARK Ass" Qr. M
TO BRIG GEN" THOMAS S JESUP Q Master Gen" Washington City
[Endorsed] Capt I. Clark Hillsborough Bay May 24, 1824 June 24,
1824
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
WASH" 25 May 1824–
DEAR SIR I send for your perusal the enclosed notes, from which
you will perceive, why I am desirous to have the communication made
to Mº Blair of which I took the liberty to speak to you this afternoon—
the whole conduct of these gentlemen was one constant tissue of
miserable evasion—
* Ante, p. 924.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 945
I have to request that you will return me the enclosed directed to
New York—
I have the honor to remain with much respect
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
JAMES MONROE Esq—
[Addressed) James Monroe Esq—
[Enclosure]
Report by Alexander Hamilton of Actions as Land Commissioner
Alexander Hamilton in justification of his conduct in withdrawing
his confidence from his colleagues William W. Blair and Davis Floyd
commissioners appointed to ascertain claims & titles to lands in East
Florida
1* The repeated refusal of the majority to adopt any arrangement
of the business of the Commission and consequent procrastination
and embarrassment in the progress of its duties
2* The repeated decisions of incidental, important questions,
unaccompanied with the responsibility and certainty of written
evidence of what was determined, paralyzing and embarassing to
the influence of the minority.
3* The repeated refusal to examine and secure the original records,
trusting to certified transcripts from a Territorial officer as to their
genuineness and authenticity, notwithstanding it had been officially
communicated by A Hamilton to the commission in the presence of
the Keeper of the Public archives that and important erasure had
been made in the letter of Governor Kindelan of the 4 June 1813 the
inducement to the Royal order of the 29 March 1815 issued to authorize
remuneration for military services—and when it was also within their
knowledge that a grant of minor importance had been taken from the
Keepers office & one of 16000 acres substituted—
4—The incorrect, preposterous, and injudicious determination that
the claimants were entitled to have entered on the minutes of the
commission whatever testimony they might produce and that the
Commissioners had no right to interfer during the examination of a
witness on the part of the claimant
5* The unqualified decision that grants to lands dated posterior
to the 24 January 1818 not exceeding 3,500 acres were within the
jurisdiction of the commission, notwithstanding they were declared
by the treaty to be null and void—which was subsequently attempted
to be evaded and denied
6* The repeated refusal to report the proceedings of the commis-
sion to Congress, anterior to the passage of any act, extending the
term of the session and thus withholding from Congress information
that was essential to correct and advised legislation
801867--57–61



946 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
7* The indelicacy of addressing a private letter to the Hon
William H. Crawford giving an imperfect, insufficient and erroneous
account of the circumstances of the commission dated 29 December
1823 * the same day the majority rejected a proposition to make an
official report and keeping the inspection of the said letter from
Alexander Hamilton until the 28 of January 1824—a few days anterior
to the expiration of the term in virtue of which they were appointed
8* The incompatibility of engaging as counsel in suits at law,
involveing conflicting interests arising out of adverse grants and
especially in the case of John H. M*Intosh involving in its decission
almost all the important principles necessary to be settled by the
Commission, anticedent to the commencement of its adjudications
and this practice, accompanied with the more extraordinary fact,
that immediately previous to the examination of M*Intosh's case,”
the majority refused absolutely to establish any general principles to
be referred to as governing the decisions of the Commission and in
consequence Alexander Hamilton declined all responsible interference
in the adjudications, and had the same recorded specially on the
minutes.
9* The indelicate disregard to the confidential character of the
Commission in an intention & deliberate determination to appoint
any person who could conscientiously consider himself at liberty to
take the prescribed oath of office, while totally and entirely ignorant
of the Spanish language and under which incompatible circumstances,
they proposed to appoint Joseph B Lancaster, brother in law to William
W Blair, for which purpose he had accompanied the majority from
Kentucky and attempted to justify the measure on the precedent of a
corresponding case in West Florida. In consequence of the objections
from Alexander Hamilton the appointment was not made, who read
to the majority and inquired distinctly and emphatically whether
they thought the applicant could conscientiously take the oath of
office. The commissioners seperated with an understanding that the
appointment of a secretary should be the subject of future considera-
tion—
The result was that the majority in persuance of a previous seperate
arrangement appointed Francis J Fatio secretary to the commission,”
and Davis Floyd moved that an assistant should be appointed in order
* NA (GLO, E. Fla. Repts., Acts 1822 and 1823), and NA (H. R. Orig.
Repts., Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess.); printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong.,
1 sess., and A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III, 757–759. See the Secretary of State to
Floyd and others, Aug. 17, 1824, post, vol. XXIII.
* Evidence in the case of John H. McIntosh and others v. the United States is
found in A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 725–750.
* Minutes, Board of Land Commrs., Aug. 4, 1828 (A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III,
770).



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 947
to introduce Joseph B Lancaster to a participation of the emoluments
of the office,” in correspondence with a bargain between Fatio and
said Lancaster which motion was withdrawn at the suggestion of
Alexander Hamilton that neither the law nor the occaision authorised
such a measure The result however showed that neither consistency
nor public obligation could prevent the appointment—
On the 3d August * on motion of Alexander Hamilton it was
“ordered, that only so much of the Spanish documents were required
to be translated by the claiments as might be deemed essential to a
fair understanding of the claims”
On the 5* August on motion of Davis Floyd it was resolved, that
the claimants would not be required to produce translations of their
title papers and that it should thenceforth be the duty of the secretary
to furnish translations.” To this motion Alexander Hamilton
dissented, and gave as his reason, the enevitable procrastination, of
the business of the commission to the Sacrafice, of the public and
private interests, at the same time suggesting as a more judicious
course that an account be kept of the claimants expenses for the
purpose of refering it to the consideration of Congress for reimburse-
ment. The claimants objected to the expence and the majority
decided in their favour. The consequence was that numerous
applications were made by the claimants for permission to withdraw
their papers in order to have them translated at their own expence.
It was impossible for the secretary to perform the duty imposed on
him
On the determination of the majority to have all Spanish documents
translated by their secretary it was moved by Alexander Hamilton to
appoint ex necessitate—Clerks qualified according to the provisions of
the act of Congress which was rejected and Joseph B Lancaster ap-
pointed assistant secretary, at the suggestion of Francis J Fatio, under
the engagement for a division of the emoluments of the Office
10—The majority are charged with a perfect knowledge of all the
above circumstances and consequent evasion and misrepresentation
in stateing in their semi official letter to the secretary of the Treasury
of the 29 December 1823 “that under the pressing circumstances of
the commission the secretary had been required to employ an assistant
which reduced his regular salary to a mere pittance and that it would
be ungenerous and unjust to ask of him to employ another”—If the
secretary performed his duty, the Commission had no right whatever
might be the urgency or pressing character of the circumstances to
require the secretary to employ an assistant at his own expence—
* Aug. 6, 1823, ibid., p. 771.
* This date is an error, since the Commissioners did not convene until Aug. 4,
1823.
* A. S. P., op. cit., p. 771.



948 T E R R I TOR I.A. L. PA PERS
The law created the duty and affixed the salary at $1250, which my
colleagues at the time they wrote their letter, beleived would amount
to $2500 including fees, although unfortunately for their opinion
Congress has thought other wise, if the necessity called for assistance
the exercise of a sound discression would have been liberally advocated
and no doubt sanctioned by the “generosity and magnanimity of
Congress”—, and in this spirit was the proposition to appoint as many
clerks as were necessary, properly qualified
11 The majority report as an excuse for requiring an additional
clerk that one of the secretaries “was constantly employed in recording
the evidence of title &c.”—while they well knew that neither of the
persons in the employment of the Commission were or ever had been
so engaged and that as late as the 5* of February 1824 “the recording
of the evidence of title &c.”—had not commenced—It is now avered
that the real cause was, that the embarrassments of the Commission
arising out of the want of system required that an extraordinary effort
should be made, in order to satisfy Congress that the Commission had
not entirely misapplied its time
12. It is peculiar, and certainly did not create the most favourable
impressions that in the private semi official letter of the 29 Dec 1823
any solicitude should be expressed to releive the claimants from the
charge of fees, a communication which might not have been treated as
a public letter as it commenced “Dear Sir,” while it was matter of
record, that a resolution restraining the authority of the secretary,
to collect the recording fees had not been concurred in.
13 The majority are charged with constructions of the acts of
Congress, unwarranted by any equavocation or incongruity incident
either to the reason, spirit or phaseology of the laws.
14 The majority represent to Congress, that it had been “their
first business,” to examine and ascertain the law governing the dis-
tributions of the public lands, in order “to do justice with exacti-
tude”—between the parties, while the minutes record, that the refusal
to do so, was the ultimate cause that resolved Alexander Hamilton on
the 20 Jan’ to withdraw from the adjudication”—This contradiction
is further supported by the correspondence of Davis Floyd and Alex'
Hamilton of the 8 Jan 1824 * written for the express purpose to pro-
* See Hamilton to the President, Jan. 25, 1824 (NA, HF, Orig. Repts., Treas.
Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess., printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong., 1 sess., and A. S. P.,
Pub. Lands, III, 766), announcing his action in withdrawing from the Land Board.
°0 Hamilton to Floyd, Jan. 8, 1824 (NA, GLO, E. Fla. Repts., Acts 1822 and
1823, and NA, HR, Orig. Repts., Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess., printed, H.
Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong., 1 sess., and A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 763–765; Floyd to
Hamilton, no date, extract printed, ibid., p. 765. A copy of Hamilton's letter to
Floyd was enclosed to the Secretary of the Treasury, Jan. 12, 1824 (NA, GLO,
E. Fla. Repts., and NA, HR, Orig. Repts., Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess., printed,
H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong., 1 sess., and A. S. P., op. cit., p. 768).



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 949
duce some arrangement and corroborated by the majority in their
letter of the 27 Jan’ 1824, addressed to A. Hamilton * and with his
answer * transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury as will appear
by refference to his letter dated Charleston 25 Feby 1824.” The royal
order of 1813 * had not been seen by the Commissioners anticedent to
their adjudications and according to the report of the majority they
had never inspected the ordinance of Governor Quesada of the 20
Nov 1790,” which, if they had ever examined and understood they
would not have subjected themselves to the charge of attempting to
impose upon Congress in alleging that Gov. Quesada in his ordinance
of 2 Sept 1790 * referred to a royal order vesting him with plenary
powers to dispose of the public lands
15–William W Blair in his letter to R M Johnson Esqr."7 states
that in all cases where the claims exceeded 1000 acres and the claim-
ants were not in actual possession, that they were ordered to be
reported to Congress for thire consideration—On the 4 Febº there was
no such order and I venture to assert without having examined the
minutes of the few subsequent days that no such order now exists and
that such assertions is possitively contradicted in the list of reported
cases. This representation in Excuse, arose out of a letter written by
A Hamilton on this subject to the majority—
16 Davis Floyd is charged with being engaged in a suit at law, to
recover for the heirs of Tait a tract of land, which had been forfeited
from non possession, upon a contingent fee of $100, which said case he
strenuously advocated before the Commission notwithstanding the
majority had previously confirmed a claim in favour of the heirs of the
said Tait given to the testator in lieu of the one forfeited and requested
A Hamilton to interfere; who refused—as he had declined adjudicating
with the majority—
17—It is extraordinary that William W Blair's letter to the secretary
of the Treasury " in which he represents that the fees charged for
91 NA (GLO, E. Fla. Repts., Acts 1822 and 1823, printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156,
and A. S. P., op. cit., p. 769), expressing the hope that Hamilton would join with
them in preparing the report.
22 Jan. 27, 1824, NA (loc. cit., printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong., 1 sess., and
A. S. P., op. cit., p. 769), declining to join in the report.
* NA (GLO, E. Fla. Repts., Acts 1822 and 1823, printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156,
18 Cong., 1 sess., and A. S. P., op. cit., p. 768), informing that he had withdrawn
from the Board because it had adopted no general principles.
* Printed, A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 734–735.
95 Printed ibid., p. 728.
* Printed ibid., pp. 726–727.
27 Feb. 21, 1824, NA (GLO, E. Fla. Repts., Acts 1822 and 1823, and NA, HR
Orig. Repts., Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess.), printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong.,
1 sess., and A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 760–761.
* Aug. 7, 1823, NA (HF, Orig. Repts., Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess., and NA,
GLO, E. Fla. Repts., Acts 1822 and 1823), printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong.,
1 sess., and A. S. P., op. cit., p. 761.



950 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
recording the titles and evidence of the claims were burthensome to the
claimants and requesting the secretary, to give his construction of the
law in relation to the said charge should have the St. Augustine post-
mark of the 18" of November and endorsed by him on the outside
“copy” while the letter bears date the 7 of August previous and no
other copy of the said letter has been received in the Treasury
Department.”
HOUSE REPORT RE LAND CLAIMS IN EAST FLORIDA
[NA:HF, 18 Cong., 1 sess.:AD !]
[May 26, 1824]
The Committee on the public Lands to whom was referred the
Message of the President of the United States with the report of
Alexander Hamilton one of the Commissioners for ascertaining claims
and titles to lands in Florida º have had the same under consideration
and report, That the Boards of Commissioners in Florida have been
constituted in the mode usually adopted by the Government in similar
cases where the Claims of Individuals were to be examined.—
In all legislation much must necessarily be left to construction and
the sound discretion of those charged with the administration of the
laws.-Had the mode of deciding claims and titles to Lands in Florida
been new and the expediency or propriety of the system required to
be tested by experiment your Committee might have been disposed
to examine with more rigid scrutiny the laws to ascertain if some
defect might not be discovered in them demanding the legislative
interference of Congress and whether some other tribunal might not
be constituted better adapted to the decision of these claims than the
present board of commissioners.—
But knowing that similar tribunals have decided on the Claims of
Individuals to Lands in all the States and Territories of the United
States where such descisions were necessary and believing that the
existing laws relative to the decision of claims in Florida are sufficient
if properly administered your Committee feel no disposition to recom-
mend either a change in the tribunal for descision or to add other
legislative provisions to those allready in existence and which they
believe sufficient if properly executed.—The Committee therefore
recommed the adoption of the following resolutions
* The report of Floyd and Blair, Feb. 21, 1824, is in NA (GLO, E. Fla. Repts.,
Acts 1822 and 1823), and in NA (H. R. Repts., Treas. Dept., 18 Cong., 1 sess.),
printed, H. Exec. Doc. 156, 18 Cong., 1 sess., and A. S. P., op. cit., pp. 725-750.
A subsequent and supplemental report, covering parts of 1823 and 1824, is also
found in the same source, and is printed ibid., pp. 751—863. See post, p. 964.
See also the Secretary of State to Land Commissioners (E. Fla.), Aug. 17, 1824,
post, vol. XXIII, for other relevant citations. See also post, vol. XXIII, May 25, 1852.
* Printed also in H. Rep. 130, 18 Cong., 1 sess.; A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III, 863.
* May 18, 1824, H. Doc. 158, 18 Cong., 1 sess.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 951
Resolved that the President of the United States be requested to
cause to be prepared and transmitted to the Commissioners for the
examination of Claims and titles to Lands in Florida such instructions
touching their powers and the performance of their duties under the
existing laws as he may deem necessary from an examination of the
report of Alexander Hamilton one of the Commissioners and the report
of the other two Cmmissioners for east Florida
Resolved that the President of the United States be requested to
adopt such measures as he may deem necessary for the safe keeping
and security of the public records of the Spanish government in rela-
tion to Lands in Florida.
[Endorsed] May 26, 1824 Whipple. 9. agreed.
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, XI: LS)
U. S. Attorney’s Office, W Florida PENSACOLA 26th May 1824
SIR, Not long Since I had the honor to address to you a communica-
tion in relation to some charges preferred against me at Washington
for acts in my official capacity " & which as I then did & still do beleive
originated in the worst motives. I regret Sir that I should be again
under the necessity of troubling you upon a subject so unpleasing, but
that duty which every individual in office owes to himself and to his
government must from my apology, for I should be unworthy of the
station which I have the honor to hold—and the government would
act unjustly to the community to retain me in office were I in any
degree capable of the acts ascribed to me by my inveterate enemies
and accusers. Having been advised within a short period by the
worthy Delegate from this Territory that my defence &c.—had been
received at Washington & that as he beleived I had nothing to fear
from the malignant attacks of my Enemies which had been made
before the President, I spoke here of these advices with some gratifica-
tion of heart, and when this had reached them, either thro my remarks,
or the advices of their Agents at Washington—my answers were not
long in renewing their assaults upon me apparently with renewed
vigor. Aware that if an entire failure of their attack at Washington
should ensue that the blow must recoil upon themselves and that the
respectable part of the community were beginning to manifest an
honest indignation at the manifestly unmerited persecution lavished
upon an officer who was only obnoxious to them on account of a
determined discharge of his duty, they deemed it essential in order to
save themselves first to attempt to blacken the character of that
officer by reports & suggestions and eventually to organize a formal
• Ante, p. 864.



952 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
attack upon him in the shape of charges, in the support of a rule of
Court entered against him to shew cause why he should not be sus-
pended or expelled as an Attorney from the Bar; and these charges
exhibited too in a Court the Judge of which had long been known as
his avowed enemy—these charges preferred, & supported by the evi-
dence, of Individuals whom that officer had been compelled officially
to prosecute—and being moreover principally the very charges which
had been before preferred by them at Washington which they appre-
hended without any hope of success—Being fully confident that the
avowed hostility of the Judge to the officer charged would insure
their success before him, & enable them to make as formidable an
array as could be wished—the proceeding was taken (as I am advised)
for the purpose of being forwarded to the President to secure their
success there, as well as to sustain themselves with the Publick here, &
it is for this reason Sir, that I have made the present communication—
without waiting to be informed whether their despatch has yet been
forwarded.—The only additional charge to those first made against
me to the President upon which I deem it necessary to touch at this
time, is one which if true, should itself destroy me, but which is
“baseless as the fabric of a vision”—viz' that of having embezzled the
money of my Clients—”.—The facts Sir, are briefly these, while
acting as an attorney in Georgia, and having in my hands at times
debts for collections to the amount of perhaps Forty thousand dollars
there was a collection made by me for a Mr. W. I. Hobby of Georgia
for several hundred Dollars, and without collecting to it I assumed the
responsibility to him upon another Paper of his placed in my hands to
the amount of several hundreds more. Being in flourishing & success-
ful business—& connected in the 6th Circuit Court of the U. States
with an eminent Lawyer & in the continued receipt of large sums of
money for Clients & others, instead of making (as strict prudence
would have dictated) the Bank my place of Deposit, I was my own
Banker, & without suspecting in the least my situation, I found myself
unable to meet at the proper moment Mr. Hobby's demand—I
exerted myself then and since to effect that object—a train of unex-
pected misfortunes in a pecuniary way have since prevented and
Mr. Hobby thought proper to bring suit against me in the Court of
this District & judgment was promptly confessed—for neither now or
ever have I felt aught but as honor would dictate in relation to this
claim and the mention of this incident in the rule spoken of is the
offspring of the purest malice & is moreover a charge that wou'd never
have have been preferred—by Mr H. himself in relation to his claim.
Pardon Sir this perhaps unnecessary extension—and I will only add
that (if deemed necessary) I will forward by the next mail the Docu-
ments in relation to this proceeding—and any evidences or explana-
tions afterwards which may be required by the Department. I



FL, OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 953
request Sir that if you should deem it proper or necessary this letter
be laid before the President."
I have the honor to be Sir, With the highest respect Your most obed'
Servant
WILLIAM F STEELE Attorney of the U. States &c.—
HoN. John QUINCEY ADAMS Depart” of State Washington City
WILLIAM BROWNE TO GABRIEL W. PERPALL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State, WASHINGTON 27" May 1824.
G. W. PERPALL Esq."
SIR, The above" is the form of a Certificate required by the account-
ing officers of the Treasury, to be attached to your account for Services
as Judge of an Election for a Delegate to Congress from Florida—It
may be signed by the Governor or Secretary of the Territory, or by
the Delegate, Gen: Call, who certified in a like case, and will probably
be in your vicinity on the arrival of this Letter—As the draft has
passed through several hands (probably as Cash) and payment is
suspended only for want of the Certificate, you will be pleased to
forward it as soon as your convenience may permit.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedº Servº
W. BROWNE, Agº
S” Augustine [blank] 1824.
I certify that the Services for which the subjoined account is made
out, were faithfully performed, and that in my opinion the said G. W.
Perpall has received no remuneration therefor.
COMMISSION OF WILLIAM W. BLAIR AS JUDGE (MIDDLE
FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 27, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of the Act of Congress passed on the
twenty Sixth day of May 1824; entitled An Act to amend an Act,
entitled “An Act to amend an act for the establishment of a Terri-
* See post, p. 967.
* Printed below.



954 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
torial Government in Florida, and for other purposes,”" and reposing
special Trust and Confidence in the Wisdom, Uprightness and Learn-
ing of William W. Blair of Florida, I have nominated and by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate,” do appoint him Judge
for that part of the Territory situated between the Apalachicola and
Suwannee rivers; and do authorize and empower him to execute and
fulfil the duties of that Office according to the Constitution and laws
of the United States; and to Have and to Hold the said Office with
all the powers, privileges and emoluments to the same of right apper-
taining unto him the said William W. Blair, for the term of four years
from the day of the date hereof.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty seventh day of May A. D. 1824; and of the Independence
of the United States of America, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF JUDGE BRACKENRIDGE (WEST
FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 27, 1824)
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of the Act of Congress passed on the
twenty sixth day of May 1824; entitled An Act to amend an Act,
entitled “An Act to amend an act for the establishment of a Terri-
torial Government in Florida, and for other purposes,” and reposing
special Trust and Confidence in the Wisdom, Uprightness and Learn-
ing of HENRY M. BRACKENRIDGE of Florida, I have nominated and
*4 STAT. 45–47. By creating a new judicial district between the Apalachicola
and Suwannee Rivers, this act necessitated the appointment of a judge and other
officials. The new Superior Court was to be held at Tallahassee, and the older
ones were to continue at St. Augustine and Pensacola. The act also provided for
a Court of Appeals to be composed of the judges of the three Superior Courts and
to hold sessions each January in Tallahassee.
7 Blair was recommended in an undated communication to the President signed
by Del. Call, Representatives in Congress from Kentucky: John T. Johnson,
Thomas P. Moore, Henry Clay, Robert P. Henry, Philip Thompson, David White,
Robert P. Letcher, David Trimble, and Charles A. Wickliffe, and Rep. Daniel P.
Cook of Ill., and Rep. Samuel Houston of Tenn. (NA, SD, Applications). The
nomination was made and confirmed on May 27, 1824 (Senate, Exec. Journal,
III, 390–391). The commission was transmitted to Blair on July 30, 1824 (NA,
SD, Dom. Lets., XX).



FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 955
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” do appoint him
Judge for that part of the Territory situated to the West of the river
Apalachicola; and do authorize and empower him to execute and
fulfil the duties of that Office according to the Constitution and laws
of the United States; and to Have and to Hold the said Office with
all the powers, privileges and emoluments to the same of right apper-
taining unto him the said Henry M. Brackenridge for the term of
four years from the day of the date hereof.
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Wash-
ington the twenty seventh day of May A. D. 1824; and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
John QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF JUDGE SMITH (EAST
FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 27, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of the Act of Congress passed on
the twenty sixth day of May 1824; entiled An Act to amend an
act, entiled “An Act to amend an Act for the establishment of a
Territorial Government in Florida, and for other purposes,” and
reposing special Trust and Confidence in the Wisdom, Uprightness
and Learning of JOSEPH L. SMITH of Florida, I have nominated and
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” do appoint him
Judge for that part of the Territory situated to the East and South
of the Suwannee River; and do authorize and empower him to exe-
cute and fulfil the duties of that office according to the Constitution
and laws of the United States; and to Have and to Hold the said
office with all the powers, privileges and emoluments to the same of
right appertaining unto him the said Joseph L. Smith for the term
of four years from the day of the date hereof.
* Nominated and confirmed May 27, 1824 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 390–391).
The commission was transmitted to Brackenridge on July 30 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets., xx), and acknowledged by him on Sept. 11 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
* Nominated and confirmed on May 27, 1824 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 390–
891). The commission was transmitted to Smith on July 30 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets.,
XX), and acknowledged Aug 23 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).



956 T E R R. I TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto Affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Wash-
ington the twenty Seventh day of May A. D. 1824; and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE.
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF BENJAMIN D. WRIGHT AS UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY (MIDDLE FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 27, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of the Act of Congress passed on the
twenty sixth day of May 1824, entitled An Act to amend an Act
entitled “An Act to amend an Act for the establishment of a Terri-
torial Government in Florida, and for other purposes,” and reposing
special Trust and Confidence in the Integrity Ability and Learning
of BENJAMIN D. WRIGHT, I have nominated and by and with the
advice and Consent of the Senate,” do appoint him Attorney of the
United States for that part of the Territory situated between the
Apalachicola and Suwannee rivers; and to authorize and empower
him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law;
and to Have and to Hold the said Office with all the powers, privi-
leges and emoluments to the same of right appertaining unto him the
said Benjamin D. Wright for the term of four years from the day of
the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time
being should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this
Commission."
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Wash-
10 Nominated and confirmed May 27, 1824 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 390–391).
The commission was transmitted on July 30 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XX), and
acknowledged by Wright from Pensacola on Sept. 24, 1824 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
11 Isaac N. Cox, of St. Augustine, applied to the Secretary of State for this
appointment, Apr. 7, 1824 (NA, SD, Applications). An undated and unaddressed
recommendation on behalf of William Allison McRea came from Augustus B.
Woodward (loc. cit.).



FLORI D A T E R R. I TOR Y 957
ington the twenty seventh day of May A. D. 1824; and of the
Independence of the United States, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF JOHN M. HANSONAS MARSHAL (MIDDLE
FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 27, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of the Act of Congress passed on
the twenty sixth day of May 1824; entitled An Act to amend an act,
entitled “An Act to amend an act for the establishment of a Territorial
Government in Florida, and for other purposes,” and reposing special
Trust and Confidence in the Integrity Ability and Diligence of JoHN
M. HANSON of Florida, I have nominated and by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate,” do appoint him Marshal for that part of
the Territory situated between the Apalachicola and Suwannee
rivers; and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the
duties of that Office according to law; and to Have and to Hold the
said office with all the powers, privileges and emoluments to the same
of right appertaining unto him the said John M. Hanson for the term
of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of
the United States for the time being should be pleased sooner to
revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty seventh day of May A. D. 1824; and of the Independence
of the United States, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
1* Nominated and confirmed May 27, 1824 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 390–391).
The commission was transmitted to Hanson on July 30, 1824 (NA, SD, Dom.
Lets., xx), and acknowledged by him at New York on Sept. 18, 1824 (NA, SD,
Acceptances). Hanson was recommended by Del. Call in an undated and un-
addressed letter (NA, SD, Applications).
* Thomas K. White, of Pensacola, was recommended for this appointment in a
letter to the Secretary of State signed by George Walton, Craven P. Luckett, and
John Miller, July 3, and another recommendation on White's behalf came from
Judge Brackenridge, July 7 (loc. cit.).



958 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
COMMISSION OF GEORGE MURRAY AS LAND
COMMISSIONER (EAST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.]
[May 27, 1824]
JAMES MONROE, President of the United States of America,
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That in pursuance of An Act of Congress passed on the
third day of March 1823, entitled “An Act amending and supple-
mentary to the ‘Act for ascertaining claims and titles to land in the
Territory of Florida' and to provide for the survey and disposal of the
public lands in Florida,” “and reposing special Trust and Confidence
in the Integrity, Ability and Diligence of GEORGE MURRAY of Florida,
I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the
Senate,” do appoint him one of the Commissioners for the purposes
expressed in the said act, with all the powers, privileges and emolu-
ments thereunto legally appertaining.”
In Testimoney whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be here-
unto affixed. Given under my hand at the City of Washington
the twenty seventh day of May A. D. 1824; and of the Independence of
the United States of America, the Forty Eighth.
JAMES MONROE,
By the President,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.
14 3 STAT. 754–756.
15 Nominated and confirmed May 27, 1824 (Senate, Exec. Journal, III, 390–391.
Murray was appointed to take the place of William W. Blair, who was confirmed
on the same date as a judge. The commission was transmitted to Murray on
July 30 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx), and acknowledged by him on Aug. 24 at
St. Augustine (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).
1° Dr. William H. Simmons, of St. Augustine, was recommended, Apr. 10,
1824, for this appointment by Robert Y. Hayne and other members of the dele-
gation in Congress from South Carolina, whence Simmons had removed to
Florida (NA, SD, Applications). Hayne wrote a separate letter, May 3, contain-
ing biographical data relative to Simmons, to Del. Call, who transmitted the letter
with a recommendation to the President, May 3 (loc. cit.). Another recom-
mendation on behalf of Simmons was contained in a letter from Joseph M. Her-
nandez to the Quartermaster General, May 4, 1824 (NA, WD, QMG, Lets. Recd.)
An appointment as land commissioner in Florida, dated May 26, 1824 (NA,
SD, Misc. Perm. Comms.) was sent to William G. D. Worthington, of
Baltimore, Md., on June 21 (NA, SD, Dom. Lets., xx), but he declined to accept,
July 31 (NA, SD, Misc. Lets.).




LIST OF SUITS IN WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT COURT
[NA:JD, Attys. Returns, Bk. 2:ADS]
[May 1824]
List of Suits Decided and Pending in the District & Superior—Court of the United States, for the District of West
Florida Instituted by the District Attorney, and Returnable at May Session, 1823 & 1824.—
When instituted. No. Against Whom Instituted. Hº. |Amount of Debt. W. Tºm Remarks.
May 1823 1st Thos Wright | Paym: 8 Reg. $1249,8%oo — - Settled by order of the Agent of the
U S Infantry Treasury at May T 1824–Def* paying
costs.-
May T 1824 2d two boxes of sugar - - Libel for goods smuggled—& seized by
Collº—sold by order of Court as
perishable goods & the money held in
Court until final adjudication.—
Ib 3d one row boat - - Libel for same cause—and sold as
above—
Robert Breen l Libel of information under the U. S
Ib 4th Smugglers - - Revº Laws, for the treble, amount of
ſº A Bell ſ
goods smuggled.—
Ib 5th Same Def* Ib $400,00 - - Same proceeding for a specified for-
May Term 1824.—
feiture $400,—
Correct WILLIAM. F. STEELE Attorney of the U States &c for W, Florida
[Endorsed] District of West Florida, Attorneys return, List of Suits &c, for May Term 1824, for the District of West Florida.



ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT JURORS, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA, MAY TERM 1824
[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct. No. 49,199:DS]
[May Term 1824]
Abstract of compensation to Grand and Petit Jurors for their attendance at a Superior Court held at the City of
Sº Augustine for the District of East Florida; and for their travel to and from the said Court—May Term 1824 *—
For Attendance For Travel Original signatures of Jurors for
Total Amount amount paid each Received #.
Names Places of Abode Number Amount Number Amount §: jº. º:
of Days of Miles ::::::: names for our compen-
Dls: Cts Dls: CtS | Dls: Cts sation as Jurors
GRAND JURORS
Farquhar Bethune St Johns River 5 6 25 76 3 80 10 5 || Farq Bethune
James Hall Do 6 7 50 66 3 30 10 80 || James Hall
William Drummond Do 5 6 25 74 3 70 9 95 || William Drummond
Samuel Fairbank Do 6 7 50 70 3 50 11 Samuel Fairbank
James Plummer Do 6 7 50 70 3 50 11 James Plummer
his
George Petty Do 5 6 25 70 3 50 9 75 George X Petty
mark
John Warren St Nicholas 5 6 25 84 4 20 10 45 || John Warren
Matteo Solano Picolato 7 8 75 40 2 10 75 || Mateo Solana
Gabriel Priest Black Creek 5 6 25 100 5 11 25 || Gabriel Priest
Prosper Vial St Sebastians 4 5 4 20 5 20 | P, Viel
Gabi W. Perpall Sº Augustine 7 8 || 75 8 75 Gab W. Perpall
Peter Mitchel Do 7 8 || 75 8 75 | Peter Mitchel
Elias Wallen Do 6 7 || 50 7 50 | Elias Wallen
Stephen Arnau Do 6 7 50 7 50 || Esteban Arnau



i
§
William Travers
Elias B. Gould
Louis La Touch
Moses E. Levy
Bernardo Segui
Francis Gue
Joseph M. Sanchez
PETIT JURORS
Daniel Hogans
John Hogans
Robert Hutchinson
Joseph Hagans
Charles Hogans
Henry Hartley
John Black
James T. Mattair
L H. Coe
Antonio Masters
Em! W. Ormond
John Geiger
Reuben Loring
Francis Marine
Samuel Cook
Francis Ferrara
See footnote at end of table.
Do
Do
Do
Do
Do
Do
Do
Carried forward
St Johns River
Do
Do
Do
Do
Do
Cowford Road
head of North River
Do
Do
Tomoka
St Augustine
Do
Do
Do
Do
7 8 || 75 8 75
7 8 || 75 8 75
7 8 75 8 75
7 8 || 75 8 75
7 8 75 8 75
7 8 75 8 75
6 7 || 50 7 50
128 160 654 32 || 70 192 70
8 10 80 4 14
10 12 50 80 4 16 50
10 12 50 80 4 16 50
10 12 50 70 3 50 16
4 5 80 4 9
2 2 50 70 3 || 50 6
2 2 || 50 64 3 20 5 70
12 15 44 2 20 17 20
18 22 50 44 2 20 24 70
10 12 50 40 2 14 50
13 16 || 25 110 5 || 50 21 75
18 22 50 22 50
13 16 || 25 16 25
6 7 || 50 7 50
6 7 50 7 50
5 6 25 6 25
William Travers
Elias B. Gould
Louis Latouch
M E Levy
Bernardo Segui
Francis Gue by his agent
W. Smith
Joseph M. Sanchez
Dan Hogans
J. R. Hogans
Robt. Hutcheson
Joseph Hagan
Charles Hogans
Henry Hartley
his
John X Black Witness
mark
E. B. Gould
James T. Mattair
L. H. Coe
Antonio matre
Emal Wal Ormond
John Geiger
Reuben Loring
Francies Marien
Sam! Cook
Franco Ferreira



É
ABSTRACT OF GRAND AND PETIT, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA, MAY TERM 1824
For Attendance For Travel Original signatures of Jurors for
Total Amount amount paid each Received from
Names Places of Abode Number Amount Number Amount § jº.;
of Days of Miles ...} names for our compen-
Dls: Cts Dls: Cts Dls: Cts sation as Jurors
PETIT JURORS–Continued
Antonio Giraldo Do 3 8 || 75 8 75 | A Giraldo
Peter Bennett Do 10 12 || 50 12 50 | Pedro Bennet
Charles Robion Do 18 22 || 50 22 50 | Chaº Robion
Andrew Storrs Do 3 8 || 75 8 75 | A. Storrs
Pierce Rowe Do 14 17 || 50 17 50 || Pierce Rowe
Thomas Murphy Do 8 10 10 Thos Murphy
Lewis Huguon Do 12 15 15 Lewis Huguon
John M. Fontane Do 10 12 || 50 12 50 | John M. Fontane
Henry Wickes Do 12 15 15 Henry Wickes
John A. Cavado Do 10 12 || 50 12 50 | John A. Cavedo.
Peter Menard Do 6 7 50 7 50 | P. Menard
William Brown Do 2 2 || 50 2 60 || Wm. Brown
Ede Van Evour Do 1 1 || 25 1 25 | Ede Van Evour
Bartolo Llambias Do 10 12 || 50 12 50 | B. Llambias
Joseph Delespine Do 6 7 50 7 50 Joseph Delespine
Samuel Northrop Do 10 12 50 12 50 | Samuel Northrop
Bartolo Oliverez Do 6 7 50 7 50 | Bartolome Oliveros
James Riz Do 6 7 50 7 50 | James Riz
Pablo F. Fontane Do 6 7 50 7 50 | Pabo F. Fontane
John Y. Geary Do 7 8 || 75 8 75 John Y. Geary
George Geanopoly Do 7 8 || 75 8 75 || George Geanople.
Wm. Levingston Do 8 10 10 Wm. Levingston



#.
John M. Sanchez St Johns River 7 8 || 75 64 3 20 11 95 || John M. Sanchez
Lewis Guibert Picolato 10 12 || 50 36 1 || 80 14 30 || L. Guibert
Chs W. Clarke Matanza River 3 8 || 75 20 1 4 75 | Charles W., Clarke
Manuel Solano Picolato 6 7 || 50 40 2 9 50 | Manuel Solano
Wm R. Taber St Augustine 5 6 || 25 6 25 || Wm R. Taber
Henry Willman Tomoka 10 12 || 50 110 5 || 50 18 Henry Willman
| 491 | 613 | 75 | 1686 | 84 | 30 | 698 5
122 75
overcharged as per note below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172 50 allowed
$525 55
District of East Florida ss: May Term 1824
Stated by WATERs SMITH Marshal.
I do hereby certify, That the Jurors named in the foregoing Abstract were duly Summoned, and for their attendance
and mileage, at this Term, are legally entitled to the compensation affixed to thier names respectively JAMES STINGLE
Clerk Sup C*
Examined and allowed. JOSEPH L SMITH Judge &c
Deduct from this amount compensation of Grand Jurors overcharged nine days at $1.25 . . . . . $11.25
Deduct compensation of Petit Jurors over charged one hundred and twenty nine days at $1.25. . . 161.25
Paid John Green $6.25 $172,50
[Endorsed] Nº 1—Compensation to Jurors May Term 1824 Doll" 698.5 21 Sept 1824–
* The jurors for the session of this court at St. Augustine in November 1824 were as follows: [Grand Jurors] Elias Wallen, Francis Richard,
John M. Sanchez, Antonio Jose Triay, John Alden, Lewis Gardiner, William Levingston, Horatio S. Dexter, William Travers, Prosper Wiel,
Reuben Loring, Joseph Summarrall, Peter Poirier, Isaac Hendricks, Samuel Fairbank, Antonio Alvarez, Bartome Solano, Thomas Crosby,
John Mastre, William B. Robinson, [Petit Jurors] Robert Mickler, James James, Richard D. Curtis, Manuel DeMott [his mark], Lucius Everett,
George Hartley, William Molpus [his mark], Francis Marien, Pierce Rowe, Robert Gilbert, Domingo Acosta, Ramon Sabate, William Bardin,
John H. Lawrence, John Newcomer, Antonio Canovis, Bernardino S. Sanchez, Nehemiah Tilton, John Geiger, Martin Canovis, B. Sazerac.





964 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd. (Seminoles):ALS)
PENSACOLA June 3" 1824
HON” JOHN C. CALHOUN Secretary of War
I have the honor to acknowledge the recept of your letters of the 20°
of April " and third of May last.” I regret that owing to bad health.
I am not able to answer them, immediately I hope however soon, to do
so—Col" Humphryes I have order, d with the chiefs of the Seminolee
nation to Washington City.” I shall go in eight days to St. Marks,
if it is possible for me to get their. I shall remain at that point for
some time, in order to make the necessary arrangements to carry the
late Indian treaty into effect
I shall in person attend to everything matirially connected with this
buisness The utmost attention will be paid to economy, and no
trouble or labour on my part, shall be avoided, to accomplish the
views of the Goverment *
I am with high respect your obt Ser'
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed| Hon” John. C. Calhoun Secretary of War Washington
City [Postmarked] Pensacola June 4 Free
[Endorsed] Pensacola, 30 June 1824 W* P. DuVal. Has rec" letters
of 20 Ap' & 3" May. Has ordered Col" Humphreys with the Seminole
chiefs to Washington City. Shall go to S' Marks to make the neces-
sary arrangements to carry into effect the Florida treaty &c. Mr.
M“Kenny ?
ALEXANDER HAMILTON TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
NEW YORK June 4* 1824
SIR In accordance with the wishes of the Executive, I take the
liberty to make the following communication, in reference to the
resolution of the House of Representatives, requesting “the President
to adopt such measures as he may deem necessary, for the safe keeping
17 Ante, p. 925.
13 Ante, p. 939.
19 Permission for this visit to Washington by Neamathla and other chiefs had
been requested by Governor DuVal on Mar. 19, 1824 (ante, p. 904), and accorded
on Apr. 8 (NA, OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 1).
20 Subsequent letters of DuVal relative to the removal of the Seminoles to be
found in NA (OIA, Lets. Recd.), are extracted or printed in A. S. P., Ind. Affairs,
II, 618–619. See DuVal to the Sec. of War, July 12, 1834, post, vol. XXIII.
* Thomas L. McKenney, formerly Superintendent of Indian Trade, became
head of the newly created Bureau of Indian Affairs in the War Department in 1824.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 965
and security of the Public Records of the Spanish Government, in
relation to lands in Florida” ”
These documents consist of the memorials, concessions, orders of
survey, Surveys, and confirmatory titles, in the possession of the Keeper
of the Public archives, in his official character; and of the official
correspondence of the Spanish authorities, the royal orders and
gubernatorial edicts, placed by the State Department, in charge of
William Reynolds, Antonio Alvarez, and John Cavada. These papers
are kept in loose sheets, without any descriptive list, or record memo-
anda of their existance—
The necessity of securing, without delay the original title papers, has
become the more important since the issue of office transcripts of the
concession, and confirmatory titles, by which every disadvantage
is transferred to the United States, in the event of any loss—Some of
these documents are of so gross a character that they ought on the
slightest inspection to be pronounced forgeries. The official corre-
spondence, royal orders, and edicts, are of a still more delicate char-
acter, and on the preservation of these depends the ability to estimate,
to what extent, the governors possessed power to dispose of the public
lands, and consequently, how far the United States are bound by
their acts—The letters of the Florida governors are original drafts, in
many instances interlined, subject to fraudulent alterations without
the means of detection, acquiring their validity and authenticity from
their relative associate situation—
In consideration of the importance and peculiar situation of these
public Records, I recommend Edward R. Gibson and William Simmons,
as entitled to the confidence of the Government, in order to carry into
effect, any measures the President may deem proper to adopt—
Whoever may be appointed ought to be instructed to deposit all the
official papers, having connection with the disposition of the public
lands in trunks, and to engage as many persons as can be judiciously
employed in taking transcripts; the title records to be copied in such
convenient form, as to admit of their being bound together, to com-
pose a territorial Book of Records—There ought to be an alpabetical
arrangement of the Grants, with an appropriate index, and the
originals appertaining to each associated, labelled, and correspondently
scheduled—The transcripts to be deposited with the Keeper of the
Public Archives, and the originals to be guarded, to await the future
disposition of Congress. The originals of the documents accompany-
ing my report are in the office of the Commission, and, like all other
papers, subject to improper inspection. Of theese there were thirty
five brought before the Commission, by a subpoena duces tecum and
retained in opposition to Mº Blair, in order to have them transcribed,
* House Journal, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 592.



966 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
the expense of which did not exceed thirty dollars—Mº Floyd was in
Indiana–
In the confidence that this business will be the subject of a more
rigid legislative examination, I refrain, for the present, from entering
into a more minute explanation of the inducements for a prompt and
efficient interference, to guard all the public records from every
irresponsible intrusion.
In as much as I have embarked every responsibility in the perfection
of this examination, I should be pleased to have an opportunity to
superintend the translation and arrangement of the royal orders,
edicts and official correspondence, which it is in my power to do to
advantage, as I possess Some acquaintance with the Spanish language—
It will at all times afford me much satisfaction to give any infor-
mation that may be in my possession—I have understood that Mess"
Blair and Floyd are still adjudicating; would it not be adviseable that
they report their proceedings? otherwise, the government, by the
translation of M* Blair to the judiciary, will be deprived of the means
of ascertaining upon what principles they have decided, and con-
sequently the whole will have to be done over *—And the Commission,
as now constituted, ought to make a similar report on the 1*November
next, to be laid before Congress at the commencement of the approach-
ing session.*
I have the honor to remain with much respect Your Ob H. Sev"
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
HON: JOHN Q. ADAMS-Secretary of State—
The document, on which Burgewain claims 16,000 acres of land, is
so palpably a forgery, and the original in the possission of the Com-
mission, that, if it have been recommended for confirmation, the
Commissioners are not entitled to any continuation of confidence—
This paper ought to be secured—To Gibson & Simmons all communi-
cations ought to be confidential, until executed.”
* See Floyd to the Secretary of State, Aug. 24, 1824, post, vol. XXIII.
24 Hamilton declined to cooperate with the other land commissioners in East
Florida because he disagreed with their methods of procedure. He left St. Augus-
tine for Washington and wrote from the latter city on Mar. 31, 1824, to the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, resigning his position (NA, GLO, E. Fla. Reports, Acts
1822 and 1823; printed, A. S. P., Pub. Lands, III, 766–768, and H. Exec. Doc. 156,
18 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 110–115). In a letter to the Secretary of State, May 12,
1824, he withdrew his resignation to enable him to continue his official communica-
tions (copy in NA, HR, Orig. Mess. Pres., 18 Cong., 1 sess; printed, H. Exec. Doc.
158, 18 Cong., 1 sess., p. 13, and in A. S. P., op. cit., p. 766). No reply to this
letter has been found but his resignation was evidently accepted. The appoint-
ments of George Murray on May 27 (ante, p. 958) and William H. Allen on Aug.
12 (post, vol. XXIII) made a full board.
* See Hamilton to the Secretary of State, July 10, 1824, post, XXIII, and the
Secretary of State to Gibson and Simmons, Aug. 23, 1824, ibid.



FL OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 967
[Addressed] [MS. torn] Q. Adams (MS. torn] retary of State
Washington Free
[Endorsed] Hamilton Alexander N. Y. 4 June 1824 Recd the &
registered the 14th. florida Affairs—resolution H. R.
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:ALS)
U States Attorney's office, W Florida PENSACOLA 4* June 1824
SIR-By the last mail I had the honor to address you " upon the
subject of some very ignominious and most groundless charges
preferred against me by infamous men here and countenanced by my
enemy the Judge to effect the objects which their previous attacks
had failed to attain, viz, my removal from office.—Since my last
communication the most high handed measures have been resorted
to by the Judge, I have been by him imprisoned and fined & thus
seriously interrupted in the discharge of my official duties as Attorney
of the U States.—I had applied, in time for their transmission by this
mail for copies of the opinions and judgments pronounced by the
District Judge in the respective cases, but they have not been as yet
furnished (whether through intentional delay or not I am ignorant)
so that I shall be compelled to postpone my despatch upon the subject
until the ensuing week.-The conduct of the Judge has been so
extraordinary that I should deem it to be my official duty (if self
defence did not require it) to report his course throughout in these
matters and I trust that the documents & proofs—which will be
forwarded will go sufficiently to prove that his course well merits
reprehension & demands an investigation for the good of the com-
munity.
I shall have the honor to communicate upon this subject in detail
by the ensuing weeks mail,” until when sir
I remain Most Respectfully & with high consideration Your very
obedient humbe servant
WILLIAM F STEELE Attorney of the U States &c
HoN* JoHN Q. ADAMS Secy of State &c-
[Endorsed] 4 June 1824. Steele William F. His affair with Judge
Brackenridge Dept of State Mr Steele D. A. at Pensacola—
* Ante, p. 951.
* See post, p. 972.



968 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
PENSACOLA, June 5* 1824.—
GENERAL, I have the honor to report that I shall leave this
tomorrow with the Detachment ordered to open a Road to Fort
Mitchell.”—
I shall not be able to furnish you with the usual Statement and
Reports at the close of the month; nor to render my accounts for the
current Quarter until the Road shall be completed.—During the time
that the Detachment is at work upon the Road, however, I shall
occasionally return to the office here, for a day or two at a time.”—
I have the honor to be Sir, with perfect respect Yº mo. ob. Servº
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q Mr
To/ BRIG: GEN THOMAS S. JESUP Q' Mº' Gen' U. S. Army Wash-
ington City D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt Dan' E Burch Pensacola June 5, 1824 July 7,
1824
JAMES GADSDEN TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla.:ALS)
CHARLESTON, Sº C 15 June 1824
SIR I have the honor of transmitting you a survey of the Indian
boundary line in Florida, to the extent completed by me, with a sketch
of the Country embraced within the limits of the reservation made
In my previous letters of the 27 Jan" from Cantonment Brooke,”
and of the 20" of March from St Augustine; * I have expressed to
you my opinion as to the capability of the Country for sustaining the
Indian population to be provided for in Florida, and have in detail
given my reasons for extending the north line as conditionally agreed
upon—I was the more confirmed in the opinion as expressed above
from ascertaining the fact that the Indian population in Florida had
been greatly exagerated and that the number to be contentrated
South would not probably exceed 2500 or 3000—The good lands
adapted to the purposes of agriculture and which are productive in
rice, corn, and the esculent roots, are principally high & low hammocks,
and lay in detached spots of greater or less magnitude; surrounded by
extensive districts of elevated or flat pine lands, valuable for the
grazing of stock, or as hunting grounds—The combining the three
objects of agriculture, stock & hunting will therefore, within the
* Adjutant General to William Martin, Apr. 14, 1824 (NA, WD, AGO Lets.
Sent, Bk. 6).
* See post, vol. xxiii, Sept, 1, 1824.
*0 Ante, p. 841.
* Ante, p. 905.



Sº
º \\ Lars • * *
- §§ - Se
º º • *4.4.
ºp--> * Q. -
‘i. Nº ºx: wº
* - --
** º %. ... •4 --- 7. -*.
or 22 Vºf e- ( *..." ‘e ºr
*
4./ z º --~, ‘e *...*-
/ - -: *s
*... * *
** -
* - Sº .
*-*... "
§
~/
*~~
*
*
/ §
º -0 º 4%mº. - - + .
7. *
- w
& “ * -42. ' ^*. *
A-e-ke *::::. - - • *,
Al ** a a. - f * *
wº. - - *
-
s { % 2/ ) .* r. N.
- .--rº - . i
º * */v º / .. " º
!, \ſ -- / /... . . 'S
- ſ ſº y /... . . k’ Y. .
( ** 2-- ". . ...” " * $
r ! . . . . l
y \ Lſ. . .” - &
* / ſ. .3° , $
\". . . . 4 &= -a-...-4 - 3
. A • *.*…* a 4: “- -
# *-*. . e6 4 Y’. '.
... zerº-z </… 4%:-4s.
Y: *:::::. *...













FL, OR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 969
limits allotted, furnish more than an abundant supply of the sub-
sistence of life for a greater Indian population than the one con-
templated—To agriculture however necessity only can force the
Indians, and it is not to be expected, in a country like Florida not
yet exhausted of game, that the earth will be cultivated by the savage
to a greater extent than to supply the deficiency of the chase or the
bread part of subsistence—Time only can innovate on deep rooted
prejudices & where change is necessary, it will naturally be to that
condition most assimilated to the one to be abandoned—The character
of the herdsman approaches to that of the hunter, and in a country
favourable to the raising of stock the efforts of the Indian may be the
more easily directed to that channel—The Indians in Florida have
long known how to appreciate these advantages; the wars in which
they have been engaged have however impoverished their resourses;
& suspended their energies—Restore confidence—ensure protection—
and steadily persevere in the annual distributions of stock of cattle
& hogs contemplated, and within a few years the Florida Indians
will be among the number of the best conditioned of the aborigines of
America—
The Hammocks of best character, and of greatest extent are to be
found at Okahumky—Negro settlements at Withlacouchy Creek &
Pelacklekaha—Checuchatty—near the sourses of Hillsborough river—
and on Peace Creek & its tributaries—In addition to these hammocks,
the banks of Pear Creek, from its sourse in a large pond for 15 miles
south, furnishes a body of 2" rate pine land elevated and productive—
There are two Indian villages in this district of pines, the condition of
which are favourable evidences of the productiveness of the soil and
healthiness of the country—The settlements will necessarily be con-
fined to the above districts of hammocks & pine land, a circumstance
to be considered favourable, as it must lead to such a concentration
of population as will render a judicious location of the agency prac-
ticable, and ensure to the agent greater facilities for protecting the
interests of the Indian—The balance of the Country can only be
appropriated to grazing and hunting grounds; the latter confined to
the south east & west and to be visited only during the season favour-
able for the chase—
It will be perceived, as previously reported, that the western line
terminated south in one of those extensive savannahs peculiar to
Florida and which are known as the great Indian hunting grounds—
Beyond that no line could have been traced for the want of objects to
mark, and it was very doubtful whether the country from its character
could have been traversed, independent of its being alike deficient in
water & wood—My party therefore retrogaded from Charlottes
harbor north, by a more eastern route than the one by which we
descended, and surveyed & marked the north line as recommended



970 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
to be extended—From its Eastern extremity, the propriety of adopt-
ing the ocklewaha river to its sourse as a boundary is respectfully
suggested, and from thence in a direction so as to close with the
eastern line aggreed on in the treaty—The red dots exhibit this line
as proposed to be run; the reasons for not marking which have been
explained in a previous communication I would recommend the survey
of this line the Early part of the ensuing winter; as important, not
only in designating the Indian limits East, but as calculated to add
much to the geographical information of this hitherto unknown
country—
The season was unfavourable for marking the boundaries of the
land allotted the Indian Chiefs in the Middle district of Florida—The
reservations for Econchatemeco, and Nehemathla have been defined
as agreed upon, but the spring floods had so innundated the swamps
of the Appalachicola as to prohibit any but an incomplete survey of
the reservations for Blunt, Cochran & Mullato King—To prevent
however any disturbance which might arrise from the ignorant
encroachments of Emigrants I have marked lines (at a distance so as
to designate the direction ef exteht of the North & south boundary)
from the edge of the swamp to their probable termination west—
When the waters subside, and the swamp of the Appalachicola can
be measured it will be an easy operation to complete the survey as
originally contemplated—
I was disappointed of the opportunity of a personal consultation
(agreeably to your request) with Governor Duval as to the measures
best calculated to ensure a Speedy & economical execution of the
terms of the treaty—I fully expected, (from a conference held with
Co! Humphreys, at Okahumky) to have met him & the Governor at
Tallahassee, but circumstances appear to have detained them both
longer at Pensacola than contemplated—I embraced however an op-
portunity of writing the Governor on the Subject; for my views on
which I refer you to a copy of a letter enclosed—
In a communication to you from the Commissioners authorized to
treat with the Florida Indians; you were advised of the fact that the
treaty was in a measure one of imposition—That the terms were
such as policy dictated—as the prosperity & security of Florida
seemed to demand—Concentration within any limits was not agree-
able to a population possessing singularly repulsive characteristics—
Foreign & native—Hostile and submissive—Refugees from the four
Southern tribes and scattered over the whole face of Florida from the
Appalachecola to the Cape—To bring together these discordant
materials, to reconcile them to the same or any territorial limits was
the operation of authority only, to which from their condition they
would necessarily yield, but to which they would exhibit opposition
so long as it could have any influence—They finally submitted to



FL, OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 971
the terms of a treaty as the most favourable they could secure for
themselves; & to which, by a steady course of undeviating policy,
there is no difficulty of ultimately reconciling them—A restlessness
of disposition (improperly publickly noted as hostile) has however
manifested itself, and which has been principally encouraged under
a hope that the arrangements made were not final, but that some more
favourable change might be effected—The injudicious protest against
the treaty (dictated it appears in ignorance of facts) on the part of
some of the Settlers near the Appalachicola—The unavoidable delay
attending the execution of the treaty—and the unlicenced conversa-
tions of designing men with some of the chiefs have all operated to
produce the impressions adverted to; but which have in a great meas-
ure been dissipated by the running & marking of the boundary
lines—The Indians are therefore preparing for a fate which they would
silently submit to if deemed unavoidable; but if the most distant
encouragement is given they will redouble their efforts to defeat a loca-
tion in which is involved the prosperity of Florida—If the Indian
population in Florida could be removed to some other country;
national policy would approve the measure; but if removal be imprac-
ticable the only alternative left is the most judicious location, within
proper limits & under such government as to ensure their dependance
& discipline—The least objectionable location is, in my opinion, the
one which has been selected—It is central, cut off from the sea coast,
and capable of being in time encircled by a white population—It is
in a part of the territory so situated as not to interpose an Indian
population between civilized districts—The country contains a
sufficient quantity of good land for agricultural purposes; in spots
sufficiently detached so as to prevent the too great vicinity of villages,
objectionable to the savage; the whole encircled with the most
extensive grounds alike favourable for hunting & the grazing of cattle,
It is a country illy adapted to a white population; but possessing
advantages valuable only to a savage, in the uninterrupted enjoyment
of which he may rest secure for centuries—Under this belief as ex-
pressed; the sooner the Indians can be advised of their fate, and
concentrated within the limits allotted; the sooner, in my opinion,
will all apprehensions of hostilities on our southern border vanish;
Florida recover from the embarrassments under which she has
hitherto labored—and an enterprising population induced to improve
the advantages of her climate & soils, which can alone ensure the
national objects for which the purchace from Spain was made *
Your ob Sert JAMES GADSDEN
THE HONB' J. C. CALHOUN Sec War
* No acknowledgement found. Cf. the Secretary of War to the President,
July 29, 1824, post, vol. XXIII.



972 T E R RI TOR I. A. L. PA PERS
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Fla. Terr. Papers, xI:ALS)
US Attorneys office, W. F. 18" June 1824–
SIR I had the honor to address you on the 26* of the last month *
upon the subject of the renewed attack made upon me here with the
countenance of the Court and its officers & which & which as I was
then informed was intended expressly for effect at Washington. Since
then the suggestion has been confirmed by the order of the Judge
requiring the Clerk to transmit to the President copies of all the
evidences brought forward to support the charges preferred against
me by Rule together with the opinion or judgment rendered by Judge
Brackenridge.” I have again to express my regret Sir that my duty
impels me to trouble the Govt with the detail of proceedings so very
unpleasing, & I will add that the only inducement which I can have
ever again to address the Departmt upon this affair will be a requisition
to produce the evidences which I shall advert to & proffer in the course
of this despatch.
For I shall rather determine to resign my office ere long, if, conscious
of my innocence, and enabled to prove it amply, I am yet to be
incessantly harassed with a bitter persecution which altho' it may not
impose upon me either disgrace or ruin, is yet sufficient by its dark
attacks & continued vexations almost to dispel each gleam of happi-
ness, and (from the peculiar situation of myself & opponents being
judicial officers) instead of giving room for any manly redress to
denote me to silent anxiety & helpless resentment.—It has been well
remarked by some writer, that no oppression is so heavy or lasting as
that which is inflicted by the perversion & exorbitance of legal author-
ity & truly Sir I have in this matter sadly realized the verity of this
observation. I would not without great cause & a sense of imperious
duty, & then ever with regret, point to a stain upon the proverbially
spotless ermine of the Bench, but Sir I am constrained to say that it
will be here fully manifested that the bosom of a Judge is not inaccessi-
ble (as it should be) to the fierce feelings of private malignity, but that
the most settled enmity has in this instance pervaded official action.—
That my hitherto unassailed character as a member of the Bar of the
highest Courts of three States, as well as of three Federal Courts
together with my station, and the consciousness on the part of the
Judge, that he himself, & every individual concerned in this matter,
were my violent personal enemies, that all this should not have pre-
vented the iniquitous course adopted towards me must doubtless
occasion astonishment, & indeed is only to be accounted for by the
belief that prudence has with them been blinded by passion—&
* Ante, p. 951.
* Present.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 973
the fact that a plot in which the Judge has been concerned was long
since formed to remove me from office at all hazards, or rather to com-
pel the President so to do, & this fact is here well understood—
I will premise Sir that the Rule (Nº 1)* was entered during my
absence from the Court, without any notice to me whatever, &
placed upon the Record not being supported by affidavit or any kind
of proof, but upon the simple suggestion of a man of very bad
character, whom (as the Judge knew) I had been compelled to prose-
cute for serious offences. Upon the following morning I moved the
court upon several grounds to expunge the Rule from the Record, &
among other grounds were the above named, and the additional one,
that as under the Judiciary Act of [blank] the District Judges were not
allowed to preside in any cause in which they had been of counsel for
either party, or were in any way interested * & I then calmly &
respectfully submitted to the Court whether this case did not come
within the reason of the law, when I stated that I was prepared to
prove by the most respectable witnesses the enmity of the presiding
Judge to myself, and his friendship for the accuser. An order was
instantly entered by command of the Judge (Brackenridge) to im-
prison me for three hours for a contempt, before the three hours had
elapsed, the Marshal came again however to the prison, & required
me to accompany him & appear in court, which I declined to do upon
a verbal command, & required of him some authority—& whether any
other entry had been made upon the Record than the original order of
imprisonment—the reply being that he had only a verbal order, & that
no remission of the imprisonment or any change of the order had been
made upon the Record I persisted in my refusal to depart until the
expiration of the three hours—unless some proper authority was
shewn—, whereupon I was ordered to be brought by posse which was
done, and on being brought into court was fined fifty dollars for
contempt in not coming at once from the prison, (to which I had been
sent by an order of Record,) and was committed to the Marshal
until fine paid which was promptly done by my indignant fellow citi-
zens, I was refused a hearing in my defence (a liberty allowed to the
worst criminal elsewhere) & was in short literally gagg'd in court
until an immediate adjournment took place. An affidavit for a
remission of the fine (Nº 2)” was then for experiment offer'd, which
was refused to be filed or considered for a moment by the court.
** Present; signed by John Lee Williams it sought disbarment of Steele upon
six charges which included embezzlement, falsification of records, instituting un-
founded suits, and “insulting & ungentlemanly conduct, to the officers of this
Court.”
* Approved Mar. 3, 1821, 3 STAT. 643.
* Present, a formal recitation of the circumstances of his imprisonment and
fine, concluding with a plea that his defence be heard.



974 T E R RI TOR I.A. L. PA PERS
Upon a renewal of the motion to expunge the Rule, the motion was
refused to be entered & the Judge merely required the accuser
(J L Wºº) (several days after placing the Rule on Record) to make
oath that to the best of his knowledge & belief the changes (not the
specifications Nº 3)” in the Rule were to the best of his knowledge
& belief &c, true which he of course readily deposed—and the evidences
were accordingly marshalled organized & arranged—& the testimony
has been as I learn (for really I knew so well the result was fixed ere it
began that I deemed it folly to strive with this Judge) taken down and
prepared in that way which might best subserve their purposes at
Washington. I need not here say more with regard to the actors in
this business than that they are all close friends & partizans with each
other and thorough enemies to myself—as shall be proved when
required. With regard to the Judge Col Wºº Barnett's affidavit *
heretofore transmitted may be referred to with propriety on this
head.—I will Sir recur as briefly as possible to the several charges
advanced as seen in Nº. 1 & 2–& in relation to the first charge & the
two specifications it may be remarked that they are not only utterly
false, but suggested & preferred without the knowledge wish or consent
of Mr Graham or Mr Hobby who would have disdained to make
against me so foul & unfounded an accusation.—In the case of Mr
Hobby—about five hundred dollars were collected by me (while
practising in Georgia) & the remainder due upon a note placed by
Mr H in my hands for collection was never collected but was assumed
by me, on account of a leniency shewn to the debtor (a most worthy
man) in not bringing suit against him, & I was thus induced to accept
securities from him & give a receipt as if for monies received, when
in fact I had never received them. Presuming that at the proper
moment I should be prepared to account with any client (my pecu-
niary resources being then ample) I was not in this, nor indeed in other
like instances careful as was my duty, to keep seperate my private
and professional business, & I was unhappy enough to be rendered
unable by sudden & heavy losses to meet the just demands of Mr H.
and several other clients, but that I even for a moment intended to do
them any wrong or injustice is an utter fabrication, & I can refer to
the first names in Georgia for the support of this declaration.—As to
the petty case of Mr Graham—it is in every respect a more shameless
perversion of truth, than almost any of which I could before have
conceived. I am prepared to prove whenever necessary that I never
act as Attorney in a Justice's court that in this case I acted for a
friend of old standing & that he never had the slightest thought of
passing blame upon me in any way & on the other hand expressed his
* Present. These were the formal charges brought into court by Williams.
* Ante, p. 877.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 975
obligations for my attention to this business but of all this my perse-
cutors were ignorant or regardless. As to the second charge & the
specifications I will observe that the first specif"—that of altering the
Record by interlining the names of Louis & Manuel is the same which
has been already once made to the President, which was as I trust
placed in a proper light by the worthy Foreman of the Grand Jury at
the term to which the charge refers in his letter heretofore sent to the
Department." Having been since called upon to act as U S Atty
upon the Recognizance taken against myself for the above act, to
which Recogniz" I was ordered by the individual accuser J L Williams
acting as Justice—I moved the court to appoint a publick prosecutor
pro hac vice, which was (with much apparent reluctance) declined,
inasmuch as the publick indignation on this subject was quite manifest
& the witnesses were then at my request sent by the Court itself before
the Grand Jury at the late May Term (of which body Mº Twitchell
was also Foreman) who promptly rejected the charge—and yet after
this the Judge aware of the constitutional tribunal of the country
having passed upon it & knowing that this very charge had been
ineffectually made & was spurned as an infamous fiction by every
honorable man in this community proceeded to hear evidence on this
matter & to intimate his opinion that the Attorney of the U States
had in this matter committed forgery. In this & others of the charges
which assert the commission of offenses by the writer—it will be seen
that the Judge has utterly disregarded the right of trial by jury &
taken the law into his own hands” I need hardly remark that evidence
of a more settled resolve to use all the force of official power to effect
unmerited and wanton injury & cause injustice could scarcely be
adduced in human annals. I beleive with sincerity that there was no
man who heard this proceedure but who was impelled from honest
impulse to ejaculate as well in this instance as at the time of the imposi-
tion of the fine of fifty dollars. “Grossius hac Rhadamanthus habet
durissima regna”—As to the four additional specifications made they
are alike shameful untruths without the shadow of foundation. In
respect to alterations of Indictments I have ever exercised my official
discretion under the laws with integrity and have never in any
instance illegally changed the form of any indictment as any honorable
man who knows me will beleive.
As to the third charge and the specification under it—it becomes
only necessary to say that I am and ever have been incapable of such
an act & that the deposition of Mº Scott can be at any time obtained
to prove the utter falsity of this accusation. In reference to the
fourth charge &c it may be remarked that the charge is the same here-
tofore preferred against me before the President, and that in each
* Ante, p. 898.
* From this point the document is written in a different hand.



976 T E. R. R. I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
case cited I shall be fully enabled to prove whenever it is required
that good grounds for prosecution existed that indeed prosecutions
were well deserved.
For the fifth charge & fourth specification a deposition can at
any time be filed to prove that every material fact was correctly stated
in the News paper Publication * there spoken of that it was in self
defence & in answer to a most wicked & wanton attack made upon me
in a publication in a preceding paper in which last communication
was contained an intemperate & personal opinion of the Judge pro-
nounced against me in Court & which scarcely could be called a legal
opinion—The second specification &c as to a pretended Law report
will more properly be the subject of a separate communication *
having been acted upon by a separate rule against me, altho' in the
first instance embodied in the charge—The third & fourth specifica-
tions under the 5* charge relate to matters which as well as the others
are replied to in the answer (Nº. 4)” filed in Court.—In reference to
the conversation at the Commercial Hotel which respected the private
deportment of H. M. Breckenridge as a Citizen generally—and as
respected the Speaker (W. F. Steele) specially, it was spoken of in
terms of great severity—but as was beleived with a severity not
unmerited by his dishonorable & unprincipled deportment as an
Individual, and even as a Judge to wound a man who had never ijured
him—but the term court or aught like it was never mentioned. And
indeed it is a unique case that for such a conversation a contempt
should be alleged—As to the fourth specification by adverting in
argument on the motion to expunge the rule &c to the Judiciary Act
this has been before discussed and is more fully shewn in the answer
(Nº. 4) before named—After the evidence had been closed & my
answer had been heard I stated to the Court that I was prepared to
make an affidavit if required that every material fact should be dis-
proved by evidence at the next term if a decision upon the rule was
postponed until that time. Upon discovering however that it was
resolved by the court to make a final decision at all hazards and indeed
that any thing I could say had I possessed the tongue of an Angel
would not avail me. I desisted and the Judge then pronounced an
opinion the most oblique & untrue which I have ever heard from a
Judge & more clearly indicative of malicious feeling than I had sup-
posed even this Judge would venture which opinion was accompanied
* Ante, p. 875.
42 Post, p. 981.
* Present; Steele's answer to the charges against him and a protest against
disbarment proceedings on his conduct as a public official.



F L OR I D A T E R R IT OR Y 977
with a sentence as annexed (N* 5.)* The determination of Judge B.
was as I have no doubt when the rule was entered to order my removal
as U. S. Attorney &c.—as well as in the capacity of a private practi-
tioner but the enormity of this attempt after they beleived the failure
of the same attempt already made at Washington was too palpable
and the public displeasure being somewhat evident on this account
they desisted—I use the term “they” in this matter Sir, because it
is at this time evident to all candid men here & is I beleive entirely
susceptible of proof–that H. M. Breckenridge, J. M. White, John
Innerarity, John Miller, William Sebree, John L. Williams, Henry
Grandpre, W* H. Hunt—N. S. Parmentier—and a number of minor
personages whom I have found it my duty to prosecute in the course
of my official progress—are formed as a combination to destroy me
in any manner however indefensible. Were it necessary Sir I could
readily adduce proofs of the utter destitution of principle & almost
infamy of character of most of the members of this league—As to the
style & the matter of the opinion which is as I suppose by this time
transmitted to the department of State—I cannot bring myself to
comment upon it specially least I should purchance forget that calm-
ness which is due to the authority to which I address myself—Yet I
cannot deem it my duty to avoid altogether the notice of some few
points in the opinion which are such wide departures from the verity
of the case, and which proceeding from such a source as that of an
U. S. Dist. Judge might unexplained carry some small authority. In
several instances the Judge alludes to my deportment in Court which
he asserts has been often insulting & offensive, whereas I shall be
able fully to prove that my manner altho' ardent has never been as
stated—and that altho' ardent has never been as stated—and that
altho' I had a perfect knowledge of the Judge's devoted enmity & of
all those he could influence I have yet always acted to him with pro-
fessional courtesy. It is susceptible of proof that I have been fre-
quently prevented from arguing a case for my publick or private
Clients—& been commanded to silence without the slightest reason,
and when I have respectfully asserted my rights and demanded to
be heard have been either threatened with imprisonment or actually
imprisoned.—
The assertion of the Judge in the Opinion that he is not nor has
been ever my enemy &c.—when contrasted with the affidavit of Col.
Barnet before named and with his declaration in the said opinion that
it is very natural he should be my indignant enemy on account of
my conduct to him must really excite astonishment when it is known
* Present. “It is ordered that the said William F Steele Esq be suspended
from practising as an Attorney at this Bar until the further order of this Court,
except in such cases as the interests of the U States or the Territory of Florida
are concerned . . . " The proceedings were to be sent to the President.
301867—57—63



978 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
that numerous affidavits of the most respectable Witnesses could be
adduced to prove his devoted hostility—As to the numerous wicked
suggestions of his belief against me contained in the Opinion of my
running as he terms it before Mayor's, Justices &c.—to insure the
emoluments of office &c.—of my having never denied the correctness
of the charge against me in the case of Graham &c.—of my conduct
in Mr. Hobby's case & my denial of the debt on the receipt of money
& of the groundlessness of many prosecutions instituted by me against
J. L. Williams & others—of my inducing Mº Scott to act improperly—
of my asserting that I should file information because the Grand
Jury refused to find Bills &c.—and many other assertions made in
the Opinion—I can only remark, with due deference to the depart-
ment—that I solemnly declare them to be the most unfounded &
iniquitous misrepresentations & undue suggestions thro' out which
could have been devised by the most perverse malice—I will merely
remark as to the comments of the Judge in the part of the opinion
relating to the alleged alteration of the Record in the case of the
Coulons before spoken of-in which the words Manuel & Louis were
inserted & to which the letter of the Foreman T. Twitchell Esq.
heretofore sent had relation *—I must declare that I have been
shocked at the utter destitution of correctness & feeling in this part
of the opinion—where the Judge could remark “that the refusal of
the Grand Jury (whose Foreman M* Twitchell was Foreman also
at the last term &c.) to find against me ought after they had fully
examined the case at my request—was no evidence of innocence—&c
that this was my doctrine &c”—I must believe that this circumstance
alone will stamp the character of his conduct to me—and will
shew with what candor or honor the opinion is delivered in
other respects as well as this—It is notorious (& the Judge knew
it) that in regard to this plot got up between John Innerarity (brother
in law of the Coulons) & Mr. J. L. Williams (the magistrate who
recognized me) to charge me with forgery in defacing an Indictment
by inserting the words Manuel & Louis it is notorious that every
honest man in this community has viewed & still views it as one of
the most shocking and infamous attempts to pervert the laws to the
injury of an Individual which has ever been developed—And as to
the Judge's intimacy with this M. J. L. Williams and partiality for
him it is here well known.—
In conclusion Sir I will observe that I shall when required send
such evidences as it may be intimated and necessary but shall other-
wise omit to address the department again on this subject and shall
endeavor in the earnest discharge of my official duties as usual to
forget that base conspiracy which has been so earnestly directed against
** Ante, p. 898.



F L OR I D A T E R R. I TOR Y 979
me—I can safely say Sir that I care less for the office (which is by no
means so valuable as to induce me to forego all happiness by a long
retention of it after their plans are defeated, amid a circle of Lynx
eyed and tyger hearted enemies) than is my care for the honor of my
Country in seeing a base conspiracy of bad men effect by wicked
ingenuity—the unmerited prostration of an officer of Government
who is to them obnoxious—I shall rest Sir contented to await any
advices on this subject from Washington, and shall only request (if
deemed necessary) that this communication be laid before the Presi-
dent of the U. States. I had intended at this time to give a history
of my most illegal fine & imprisonment for publishing a true account
of the proceedings of Judge B. in a matter at the last term but I will
take leave Sir to postpone it until the ensuing week when I will make
a brief communication on the subject “
I have the honor to be Sir, With the highest consideration Very
respectfully Your ob" hble Servant
WILLIAM F STEELE Atty of the U States &c
HoN. JoHN Q. ADAMS Wash" City
GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS)
PENSACOLA June 21** 1824.
HONLE JOHN. Q. ADAMS Secretary of State
SIR I had the honor some time past to write to you on the subject
of the local expences of this Territory “–I am not informed in what
manner the appropriation to meet the expences of this Territory must
be draw—During the last year I never drew for a cent, nor will I
unless specially directed to do so—I request sir that I may be allowed
a clerk in the Secretarys office, one is necessary and I cannot afford to
furnish one at my own expence, I have paid out of my private funds
several hundred Dollars for clerk hire in the buisness of the office—
I transmitted my account last winter to Mr. Mauray * before his
death was known here
I have head nothing since in relation to the account & vouchers
I shall sail this day for St. Marks and shall remain at the new seat
of Goverment near Tallahassee, where I request all communications,
from your Department to me may be directed
I have the honor Most Respectfully to be your Obt. Sev"
Wm P. DUWAL
* See post, p. 981.
* Ante, p. 907.
* Fontaine Maury.



980 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
[Addressed] Honle John Q. Adams Secretary of State Washington
City [Postmarked] Pensacola June 25 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Gov' Pensacola, 21 June 1824. Territorial
Expenses. Mode of drawing funds to meet them.
DANIEL BRENT TO EDGAR MACON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XX]
Dept. of State WASHINGTON 22 June 1824
EDGAR MACON Esq. Attorney of the United States for E. Florida.
SIR I have the honour to inform you that your Letter of the 17th.
of May, to the Secretary was duly received at this Office “–
Although every disposition is felt by the President and him, to
extend to Edmund Gage, the Captain of the Cygnet, the full benefit
of the noli prosequi, which you have entered on the prosecution
against that Wessel for a violation of the Laws prohibiting the Slave
trade, yet it would seem according to the opinion of the Attorney
General, who has been consulted upon the subject, that this cannot
now be done, with regard to the qui tam action which has been in-
stituted by Collector Rodman against him; the question whether the
President by noli prosequi, or otherwise, can bar the Collectors remedy
in such a case, being now a point for adjudication by the Supreme
Court of the United States, and undecided, upon appeal actually
pending before that Court, Captain Gage can only therefore have
recourse, and it is to be hoped, not in vain, to the Collector's lenity,
for the relief which he solicits of the Executive authority.
I am Respectfully, Sir, Your Obt. and hu: St.
(Signed) DANIEL BRENT.
WILLIAM BROWNE 50 TO ROBERT MITCHELL
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 24 June 1824
ROBERT MITCHELL Esq. Pensacola
SIR I enclose my check for 15 $ on the Branch Bank U. States in
this City, in payment of your account for services as Clerk of an
Election for Delegate to Congress in 1822. and have the honour to
be Yr. Very Obt. St.
(Signed) W. BROWNE Agt.
* Not found.
50 Clerk in the Department of State.



FLORIDA. T E R R. I TOR Y 981
WILLIAM BROWNE TO WILLIAM DAVISON
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 24 June 1824.
W. DAVISON Esq. Pensacola.
SIR Your Letter of the 28th. ult" came duly to hand.” I enclose
my check on the Office of Discount and Dep" Bk. of the U. States
in this place for 25$ in payment of your Bill for that amount as Judge
of an Election &c.
Your services as Sheriff appearing to have been performed after
the passage of the Act of Congress of 3% of March 1823, establishing
Florida as a Territory,” the account is lodged in the Treasury, and
if allowed, the amount will be promptly remitted to you. It has
been found necessary, in conformity with the requirements of the
Treasury to remit the sums due to Messr" Mitchell, and Allen to
themselves, personally, which will be done by this Mail.
Respectfully Your Obt. St.
(Signed) W. BROWNE Agt.
WILLIAM BROWNE TO N. H. ALLEN
[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xx]
Department of State WASHINGTON 24 June 1824.
N. H. ALLEN Esq Pensacola.
SIR In payment of your account as Judge of an Election in 1822,
for a Delegate to Congress, I hand you enclosed. my check on the
Branch Bk. U. States in this place, for 15 $.
I have the honour to be, Very Resp? Yr. Obt. St.
(Signed) W. BROWNE Agt.
WILLIAM F. STEELE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
PENSACOLA 24* June 1824.
SIR, By the mail of the preceding week I had the honor to address
you “upon the subject of the combination and attack made against
me and to intimate an intention to forward an account of my most
unjust imprisonment in defence of the liberty of the Press. It was
deemed proper to make this a separate communication inasmuch
as the matter had been the subject of a separate rule against me
(Nº 1) which being answered in a proper manner by me (Nº 2) &
which answer being placed on file an opinion or judgment was then
61 Not found.
52 3 STAT. 750–754, being an amendment to act approved Mar. 30, 1822 (ante,
p. 389). -
* Ante, p. 972.



982 T E R R IT OR I. A. L. PA P E R S
pronounced by the Court—and the rule absolute (Nº 3) entered “–
A copy of the opinion would have been forwarded forthwith but I
was not enabled to procure it to be forwarded by this mail—It can
be made to appear and I shall indeed feel it my duty whenever re-
quired so to do to establish by the best depositions that the facts
stated in the Report are true & correct—and that it was but their
truth which rendered them obnoxious to the Court.—The penalties
to which I have been subjected in defending that which has been ever
well considered as one of the most invaluable rights secured by the
Constitution of my Country are to myself deemed trifles—but when
the violation of Constitutional right, the infringement of a Freeman's
noblest privilege—the tyranny of a judicial Officer in the wanton and
unjust oppression of a Citizen are considered—the view is changed
and it becomes a matter of more importance, and I cannot persuade
myself but that a conduct so flagrantly wrong will meet in some way
a proper notice from the Government. For the publication which
was a report handed by me to the Editor (who was likewise imprisoned)
it was done in conformity with my impressions of my duty as a
Publick officer—deprecating the unfounded and till then unheard of
principle assumed by the Judge—that he had the control of the
presentments of a Grand Jury for at the time it was never intimated
even by the Judge that the document was intended as an unofficial
Act of the Grand Jury.
I have intended sir in this matter throughout to act upon correct
principles—the fine and imprisonment have been endured by me with
cheerfulness, and I only indulge a hope that the developement of
this affair may ever prevent a repetition of such high oppression in
this Country.*
I have the honor to be Sir, with the highest consideration Your
mo—obed" hble. Servant
WILLIAM F STEELE Atty. of the U. States &c
HON. JoHN Q. ADAMS Departmt of State &c
[Endorsed] June 24, 1824 Florida, West.
THE LAND COMMISSIONERS (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]
Comm” Office, PENSACOLA, 25* June, 1824.
SIR, We had the honor to address you a letter last Winter, *
requesting that you would be pleased to direct a copy of the Schedule
* Enclosure not present.
* See Sebree to the Secretary of State, Sept. 8, 1824, post, vol. XXIII.
* Ante, p. 772.



FLOR I D A T E R R I TOR Y 983
of public property surrendered by the Spanish Authorities of West
Florida to Governor Jackson," and by him forwarded to the Depart-
ment of State, to be enclosed to us. To that Letter we have received
no answer. We consider it an important Document in the discharge
of the duties of our Commission, and rendered still more so since the
date of that Letter, as most of the public Lots, scites of forts, batteries,
and buildings are now covered by private claims that we have strong
reasons to believe are fraudulent, and of recent origin. When
Governor Jackson left here there was a copy in some office of the
province, which has been purloined, destroyed, or lost, besides the
copy that was forwarded to your Department. We understand
another copy was sent to the Quarter Master General, to whom we
have also written on the Subject.” The property in question is of
considerable value to the Government.
Our colleague, Major Overton, has been indefatigably employed
in business ever since the organization of the Board, until his health
became so much impaired, it was thought adviseable to take a trip
to Tennessee for a few months. The undersigned, however, are now
constantly engaged in the examination of the claims, and there will
be no suspension, or delay, in the operations of the Board in con-
sequence of his absence.”
We have the Honor to be, With high considerations &c. &c
Your Obt. Servis
CRAVEN P. LUCKETT
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] Hon: John Quincy Adams, Secretary of State. Wash-
ington City. [Postmarked] Pensacola June 25 Free
[Endorsed] Lucket and White Pensacola, 25 June 1824 Recd 15
July. Public Property.
THE LAND COMMISSIONERS (WEST FLORIDA DISTRICT)
TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS)
Land Commissioner's Office, PENSACOLA, 25* June, 1824,
GEN'THOMAS S. JESSUP,
SIR, We learn that the Quarter Master of this place, in 1821,
forwarded to your Office a Schedule of the public property surrendered
by the Spanish Authorities to Governor Jackson. Since that period
most of the property is covered by private claims, and the copy left
here has been destroyed. Permit us to beg the favor of you to have
a certified copy enclosed to us as early as practicable, as it is an
* See ante, pp. 155, 169.
* Infra.
* See White to the Secretary of State, July 21, 1824, post, vol. xxiii.



984 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
important Document in ascertaining, and separating public from
private property.—
We have the Honor to be, with high considerations Of Respect,
Your Obt Serv tº
CRAVEN P LUCKETT
JOS. M. WHITE
[Addressed] Gen.' Thomas S. Jessup. Quarter Master General.
Washington City [Postmarked] Pensacola June 25 Free
[Endorsed] Messrs. Craven P. Lucket & Jos. M. White Pensacola
June 25, 1824 July 15, 1824
DANIEL E. BURCH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL
[NA:WD, QMG Letters Recd.:ALS)
Pensacola, FLORIDA, June 25* 1824.
GENERAL, Private claims for some of the grounds which have
been heretofore considered as in the possession of the military, par-
ticularly the scite of the old Barracks & a small Battery in Pensacola,
having been filed before the land Commissioners for West Florida
now in Session in this City, I request, if such a document be in your
office, you will be pleased to furnish me with it, in order that I may
know what public buildings or lots were turned over by the Spanish
authorities when Gen' Jackson received possession of the province.
Capt. Thornton "informs me that Major Staunton * did not furnish
him with a copy when he left the Station, hence there is none on file
in this Office. A list of this property it is understood was lodged in
the Office of the Secretary of State for the Territory, or in the Mayor's
Office of the City, but it is now either lost or mislaid. The original
I presume is in the Office of the Secretary of State at Washington.
If a copy of that however is not to be procured, & Major Staunton
should not have forwarded one to your office, I think it probable he
may yet have it in his possession.—
On the subject of public buildings in Pensacola, I beg leave to
represent for your information, that the blockhouses now occupied as
Storehouses are all situated in the streets of the City, and that two of
them occupy positions in the centre of one of the principal streets, to
the injury & inconvenience of persons owning lots & living immediately
in the rear of them. During the winter the City authorities requested
of me to abandon these, but afterwards withdrew the application,
supposing something would be done in Congress relative to the public
lots & buildings in the City.—I would therefore respectfully suggest the
propriety & expediency of abandoning these two to the City Authori-
ties, provided they will remove them at their expense, and reserving
*0 Arthur Whetham Thornton.
* Presumably, Henry Stanton.



F L OR I D A T E R R I TO R Y 985
such part of the materials of which they are built as may be of use in
the Quartermaster's Department; & that the buildings on the Hospital
lot be repaired for Storehouses, with Soldiers as carpenters it can be
done at a comparatively small expense. This lot & buildings ought,
in my opinion, to be retained in any event, by the Government, for
Storehouses, as it is more conveniently situated as it regards business
than any other public or even private lot in the City. It is considered
the most valuable lot in the City, by every person, for any kind of
mercantile business. There is one Blockhouse standing apart near the
Shore at the upper end of the City occupied by me as a Storehouse,
the one occupied as a custom house, and also the Government house,
which do not interfere in the least with the convenience of any one
on the arrangement of the City;-I would recommend therefore,
that they continue to be appropriated for their present purposes.”—
I have the honor to be Sir, with perfect respect Yº Mo. Ob. Serv"
DAN' E. BURCH Ass. Q M*
To/ BRIG: GEN THOMAS S. JESUP Q. M. Gen' U. S. Army Wash-
ington City, D. C.
[Endorsed] Capt Dan' E. Burch Pensacola June 25, 1824 July 15,
1824
RECOMMENDATION OF ISAAC. N. COX AS JUDGE
[NA:SD, Applications:DS)
[No date, 1824]
The Undersigned inhabitants of East Florida deeply lamenting the
recent unfortunate death of the Hon” Will" W. Blair, Judge of the
third Judicial District of the Territory, and anxiously desirous of
seeing the vacancy thus occasioned on the Supreme Bench supplied
by a gentleman of approved worth, talents and legal acquirements,
and trusting that the choice will be made from the residents of the
Country rather than from amongst Strangers, do unit in recommend-
ing our fellow Citisen Isaac Newton Cox as a proper person to fill the
Office above referred to; and feel ourselves authorised to state that
his appointment would afford general Satisfaction to the people of
this Section of the Territory, and would be considered by them as a
mark of attention to their wishes, on the part of the Executive of the
United States
Tho. H. Penn. John M. Fontané
Mayor of St Augustine f: j: fatio.
Peter Mitchel Rd: Weightman
Bernardo Segui W H Simmons.
* Answered Aug. 12, 1824, post, vol. XXIII.



986 T E R R I TOR I. A. L. PA P E R S
G. W. Perpall Geo: J F: Clarke
Rich" Murray Ben: Chaires
Resident Physician of Sº Au- Joseph M. Hernandez
gustine Joseph M. Arredondo
Will. Reynolds J M Hanson
A Bellamy E R Gibson
Joseph S. Sanchez
James P. Cotter.
Emanuel W. Ormond
D: Fleischman
Meynardie de Nadalie
A. Gay
O. Rutan
Antonio Alvarez
Pabº F. Fontané
Thomas Crosby
Fra" Boland pastor of the Roman
Catholic Church of Sº Augus-
tine—
Bierce Rowe
Richard P. Furman M. D.
Reuben Loring
Francis Ferreira
John A. Cavedo.
[Endorsed] Penn Tho" H. & others Recommend Isaac N. Cox as
Judge in Florida.
Dept of State—Florida—Judge*—
& Cox was not appointed. See commission of Judge Woodward, Aug. 26, 1824,
post, vol. XXIII.
Part Four Continued in Volume XXIII.



IN DE X



INDEX NOTE
In compiling the list of names of persons for this index, deficiencies in spelling
found in the text have been corrected, in so far as sources now available permit,
and variants found throughout the text have been assembled in parentheses. The
nearly illegible character of the handwriting in some instances, which leaves the
reader in doubt as to the writer's intent, and the obvious ignorance, or carelessness,
often displayed by the signatories account for many variations in orthography.
With respect to the signers of petitions, like names, with identical spelling, are
also frequently attached to successive documents on related subjects from the
same locality; yet a comparison of the handwriting discloses occasional important
differences. In such instances separate entries have been made in the index,
though the reader is warned that names were often written in by hands other than
the subscribers’; finality in this regard cannot therefore be established in every
case. On the other hand the fact that the same name is variously spelled in
sequential documents does not argue against identity of person, which is likewise
disclosed by a comparison of handwriting as well as by such other tests as docu-
ments of legal record, genealogical data, and whatever knowledge of the various
residences of a given person may be derived from the papers embodied in the
present volume. But whenever there is doubt as to such identity a separate
entry has been made. In some instances the index material is organized according
to office or function under a duplication of the principal entry (see Forbes, James
Grant).
Names of English origin have been listed in the index as written (if the signature
was not by mark); but Spanish names, which appear in the text written phonet-
ically, with much variation, have been entered in the index under the forms com-
monly used in available sources, followed by their variants in parentheses.
988



IND E X
Achesee Bluffs, on the Apalachicola r.,
608.
Acosta (Acostin), Domingo, appd. p.m.,
Fernandina, 197; bal. due from, as
p. m., 851; petit juror, 963 n.; let
ment. to PMG, 851; let. to, from
PMG, 851; signer, 566, 813, 816, 819.
Acosta, John, signer, 813, 816.
Acosta, Margaret, signer, 760.
Adair, Gov. John, of Ky., recomds.
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.
Adams, David, recomas. Long as surv.
pub. lands, 943 n.
Adans, John, rel. of W. S. Smith, 56.
Adams, John Quincy, rel. of W. S.
Smith, 56. See also Secretary of
State.
Adams, Peter, witness, 614 n.
Adams, Samuel, signer, 321.
Addison, John, declines appt. as j. p.,
359; nativity, 359; petit juror, 799;
signer, 760.
Addison, Thomas, petit juror, 799.
Adeline, U. S. schooner, to move muni-
tions to Havana, 88; to return to
St. Augustine from Havana, 86.
Adjutant General, Gadsden, letters to:
Sec. Navy, 374, Sec. War, 384–385.
See also Gadsden, James.
Adjutant General (act.), Nourse, letters
to: DuVal, 807, Gaines and Scott,
674–675; letters to, from: Brooke, 702,
Clinch, 538–539.
Adjutant General, Parker, instrs. by,
re occup. of St. Augustine, 22; let. to
Porter, 22; let. to, from Brooke, 92–93.
Adjutant General of Militia, repts. to,
required, 665, 721.
Aguilera, Sebastian, signer, 309, 314.
A-ha-pop-ka, Indian settle., back of
Musquito r., 463.
Ahrens, Henry, grand juror, 613 n.,
614 n., 790, 889; petit juror, 611;
signer, 288, 323, 893.
Aiken, B., appd. j. p., Pensacola, 132.
Aikin, Z., signer, 322.
Alabama (State), area on s. border sug-
gested for Indian reserve, 211; census
returns sent to Smith, 592; descrip. of
roads in, 764–766; fees charged by
dist. attys. in, 738, 781; map contain.
sketches of ras. sent to QMG, 766;
ment., 232; milit. force at Pensacola
important to, 527, 528; militia ob-
tainable from, 527; proposed annex. of
part W. Fla. to: memorial by Ala.
const. comm. ment. for, 312 n., mem-
orial of inhabs. W. Fla. for, 320–323,
petition of inhabs. of, ment. for, 312,
resols. against, by Span. cits. W. Fla.,
311, resols. of legis. for, 307-308,
union possible, 234; proposed ra. to
Pensacola, 764-766; St. Augustine-
Pensacola ră. runs thru, 522; use of
bank paper, 923.
Alabama, revenue cutter, captures Brit.
ships for viol. slave and navig. acts,
405; visits Fla. w. coast, 198 n.
Alabama River, Ft. Claiborne on, 698.
Alabama Territory, exper. ment. in
settling land claims, 236.
Alachua (Alatchua) country (county;
plains), Arredondo grant in, 213, 235,
270; best land betw., and the Suwan-
nee, 533; char. of land, 213, 233, 381;
Indian settle. on, 463; Indians settle
s. of, 464; land betw., and Suwannee
r. inhabd. by Indians, 533; ment.,
206, 720, 754; need of rq. from St.
Johns r. stressed, 902; negro settle.
s. of, 464; offer for settlers in, 213;
proposed meet. place with Seminoles,
280, 294, 409; site n. of, recomd. for
seat of terr. govt., 381; white settle.
at, 496.
Alagon, Duke of, Dexter and Wanton
attempt to settle on grant of, 208;
land grant to, discussed, 6 n., 847 n.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
989



990 I N DE X
A-lach-a-way-talofa, Indian settle., 463.
Alba (Alber; Alva), Pedro (Peter) de,
affid. sworn before, 877, 895; appa. to
carry orders for transfer of Fla., 95;
arrives in Pensacola as Span. commr.,
141; bears dispatches from Capt.
Genl. Cuba, 144; Callava proposes to
send overland to St. Augustine, 84;
characterized, 475; charged with order
for transfer of Fla., 64, 97; comptr.
milit. hospital, Pensacola, 97; desires
draft on New Orleans, 475; grand
juror, 613 n.; let. ment. to Forbes, 83;
mayor, Pensacola, 80.4 n., 877; passage
to St. Augustine: discussed, 90, re-
quested, 83–84, 146; pay for services
to Walton, 475 m.; pays bond, 893;
role as messenger from Mahy dis-
cussed, 89; secy. and interpreter for
Walton, 475; settle. of acct., 514;
signer, 288, 309, 314, 625; signs
receipt for rent pd. by Walton, 483;
Span. p. m., Pensacola, 97; tenure of
service, 475 n.
Alba, Peter, and Parmentier, inform Sec.
State re results of poll taken for
recomd. cands. to legis. council, 803–
804; let. to Sec. State, 803–804. See
also Parmentier.
Alberti, Lt. Edwin R., ment., 905.
Alcalde and notary, Pensacola: appt. of
131, only civil officer in Pensacola,
151; St. Augustine: const. status
under U. S. discussed, 118, disposal
of archives discussed, 152, investigates
ownership of slaves, 179, slave case
before, 118.
Alden, John, alderman, St. Augustine,
358; grand juror, 963 n.; nativity, 358.
Aldermen, Pensacola, appt. of, 131; St.
Augustine: appt. of, 120, 133 n.,
ex-officio members Bd. of Health, St.
Johns Co., 359, popular elec. provided
for, 331 n.
Alexander, U. S. schooner, to move
munitions to Havana, 88; transmits
yellow fever to Pensacola from
Havana, 532 n.
Alexander, Rep. Mark, of Va., recomds.
Wyche as member legis. council, 423 n.
Allan, J., testimony in Gerrish assault
case, 885.
Allen, Noah H., check sent to, for service
as clk. of elec., 981; foreman grand
jury, signs state. in support of Steele,
895; grand juror, 613 n.; let. to, from
Browne, 981; petit juror, 612; witness,
614 n., 889.
Allen, Rep. Samuel C., of Mass.,
recomds.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Allen, William H., foreman grand jury,
872; let. to Sec. War, 917–918;
recomd. as land commr., 917.
Allen and Wilson, of Pensacola, dispatch
cargo of timber to Phila., 583.
Allenton (Key West; Thompson's Is-
land), absence of customs coll. at,
852. See also Key West; Thomp-
son's Island.
Alligator (Alligater) Creek, grand jurors
from, 822; petit jurors from, 823.
Alva, see Alba, Pedro de.
Alvarez, Antonio, appd.: keeper archs.,
Pensacola, 575 n., to exam. E. Fla.
archs., 657; atty. for lot holders, 760;
grand juror, 963 n.; let. ment. to
Maury, 820; let. to, from Maury, 820;
pd. for services as commr. archs., 785,
820; petit juror, 800; pres. bq. alder-
men, Pensacola, 575; recomd. for
legis. council, 616; secy. to Coppinger,
575; signer, 449, 530, 566, facing 702,
986. See also Reynolds, William, and
Alvarez.
Alvarez, Geronimo, signer, 762.
Amaxura River, in rel. to Seminole
reserv. bound., 905; on proposed
bound. of Seminole reserv., 841.
Amelia, schooner, condition, 838, 915;
disposal authd., 915 n.; forced to
return to Pensacola, 628; Humphreys
sails on, for St. Marks, 628; in Mobile
Bay, 138; loaded with supplies for
Pensacola and St. Marks, 138; sale of,
928.
Amelia Island, Butler sent to, to await
Span. move from St. Augustine, 32,
33, 34; dispute re ownership of ord-
nance on, 116; Eustis commands
troops on, 385; grand jurors from,
822, 933; inhabs. pray for estab.
Fernandina as port of entry, 815–817;
loc. of, 20 m.; memorial of inhabs. for
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



I N DE X
991
Andreu, Antonio P., signer, 761.
Andreu (Andrews), Juan (John), petit
juror, 798.
Andreu, Jose, signer, 371, 704.
Andreu, Rafael, signer, 761.
Andrew, Francis, signer, 478.
Andrew, John, pilot for the bar and
harbor of St. Augustine, 360.
Andrew, Mich, signer, 478.
Andrews, Joseph, signer, 477.
Andrews, Philo, alderman, St. Augus-
tine, 358; appa.: alderman, 133 n.,
194 n., presid. judge, St. Johns Co.
ct., 133 n.; nativity, 357, 358; pd. for
services to St. Augustine, 818 n.;
resigns as judge, 357, 358; succeeds
Beckley as presid. justice, St. Johns
Co., 357.
Andrews, P., signer, 367.
Anduaga, Joaquin de, Span. minister to
U. S., comments re seizure of archs.
criticized by Jackson, 336–343; lets.
ment. to Sec. State, 335, 342, 418; lets.
of, sent to Jackson, 335; reply by
Jackson to protest re seizure E. Fla.
archs., 335–343.
Anna Maria, transport, arrives at Pen-
sacola, 144.
Anonymous, attacks Murray, 460–463;
criticism of DuVal by, 542–546; encls.
newspaper item to Sec. State, 542;
lets. to Sec. State, 460–463, 542;
probably J. Rodman, 460 n.
Anteno, Baltasar, signer, 288.
Apalachicola Bay, robbery by Indians
on, 226.
Apalachicola District, coll. and inspect.
customs appd. at, 658.
Apalachicola (Apalatchicola; Apelachi-
cola; Appalachicola) River, annex. of
part of W. Fla. w. of, to Ala. proposed,
307-308; area near, suggested for
Indian reserve, 211, 232—233; arrest of
Doyle on, 597; bounds. revenue dist.,
55; e. bound. of middle dist., 955;
extent of good land betw., and Suwan-
nee r., 848; floods inundate swamps
of, 970; improved navig. to St. An-
drews and Pensacola bays urged, 789;
Indian agt. worked solely with Indians
betw., and Suwannee r., 908; Indian
settle.: e. of, 464, w. of, 464; Indians
desig. Fernandina as port of deposit
for wrecked goods, 812–814; ment.,
22, 34, 115, 819; occupied by U. S.,
20 n., 68; persons living on, recomd.
for appt. to legis. council, 616; petit
jurors from, 823, 934; pub. property
in, 73; resid. of Bethune, 593; rev.
cutter to rept. at, for service in St.
Johns r., 378; ship laden with illegal
timber detained at, 436; supplies for
Span. troops to be secured at, 83;
troops from Boston sent to, 20, 30, 41;
troops from, to board revenue cutter,
374; troop transport to move to St.
Augustine from, 81.
American Coffee Land Association,
desires land for tropical agric., 192 n.
American Insurance Company v. Can-
ter, changes char. of terr. courts, 393
Il.
Americans, circular to, in St. Augustine,
194.
Amiera, Salvader, witness, 614 n.
“An American Civil Officer” (Worthing-
ton), defends conduct re Coppinger,
365; ment., 419.
Anastasia Island, approp. for lighthouse
on, 523 m.; loc. of, 68.
Anderson, Alexander, of Tenn., appa.
dist. atty., W. Fla., 56; declines appt.,
175 n.; solicits appt. as terr. secy., 44
Il.
Anderson, Joseph, compt. treas., certi-
fies state. of accts. of terr. officials,
632; informed re repair of pub. blag.,
771; let. to Maury, 604-605; letters to,
from: Ayers, 920–921, Johnson, 807,
White, 781, Yancey, 686–687; rept.
by, re settle. Maury's acct. with
Treas., 604-605; settle. of accts. of
Hanna, Sebree, and White requested
of, 807; White's acct. to be settled by,
781.
Anderson, Joseph, signer, 323.
Anderson, R. C., of Ky., recoms.
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.
Anderson, Samuel, appd. dist. atty.,
W. Fla., 51.
Anderson, Thomas, petit juror, 611;
signer, 322.
Andreo, Madalena, signer, 761.
Andreu, Anastacio, signer, 704.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



992 I N DE X
in area prefer to remain, 695; intent
of govt. to locate Indians near, 488;
Jackson recomds. Indian reserve on
both sides of, 720; land betw., and
Suwannee r. favors large popul., 908;
persons living on, recoma. for appt. to
legis. council, 616; point at which
Pensacola-St. Augustine râ. crosses,
608; provisions for troops open. rd.
to be deposited at, 609; reservs. in
dist. of, to certain chiefs, 749;
Richards' alleged intrigue with In-
dians on, 579; ship from Nassau in,
701; site betw., and Suwannee r.
recomd. for Indians from e. of Suwan-
nee, 410; survey of Indian reserves on,
753; w. bound. middle dist., 954, 956,
957.
Apollo (Apollon), Fr. vessel, business on
St. Marys r., 593; seized, 30 n.
Appalache, see St. Marks.
Appleby, Joshua, release from arrest
ordered, 723.
Aranda, Count de, ment., 96.
Arbuckle, Col. Matthew, arrives at Ft.
Smith, Ark., 223 n.; commands Ft.
Scott, 101 n.; departs with regt. for
Ft. Smith, 223; supplies list of slaves
taken by Creeks, 221.
Archer, Samuel B., Insp. Genl. Army,
ment., 552.
Archer, Stevenson, recomils.: Allen as
land commr., 917 n., Worthington
for office, 35 n.
Archer, Rep. William S., of Va., intro-
duces resol. of censure of Jackson,
351 n.
Archives (Span. E. Fla.), act ment.
prohib. removal from offices of keep-
ers, 758; agts. and commrs. appa. to
rec. from Span.: Baird, 85 n., 86, Bell,
362, 541, 593, 667, Cross, 79, 85, 86,
Forbes, 12, 239, 362, 593, 667, Law,
362; alcalde keeper of, 339; Bell: be-
lieves many docs. taken to Havana,
345, desires settle. of claim re seizure,
667–668, discusses seizure and reasons
therefor, 345–346; boxes stored in St.
Augustine Custom House, 574; by
agree. of Butler and Coppinger, to
remain undisturbed, 345; char. of
docs. in, 756, 965; citation of: corresp.
re seizure of, 343 n., 344 n., sources
re, 247 n., proposed to be left in St.
Augustine, 105–106; clk. appd. to
assist in examin. of, 768; commrs. for
taking over, present acct. for services,
541; condition of land records in, 829,
903; Coppinger disputes Butler's
claims to, 106; corresp. in, of: Est-
rado and Kindelan with Mitchell,
Flournoy, and Pinkney, 745, Quesada,
582; dispute with land commrs. re
possess. of, 729–731, 756–759; docs. re
land: ownership disputed, 116, to be
delivered to land commrs., 734–735;
exam., classif., and disposal of, dis-
cussed or ment., 239, 247, 272, 302,
334, 345, 346, 415, 574, 575, 637, 729,
767–768, 820, 903; DuVal repts.
need for closer custody, 687–688;
Forbes as rec. of: appt. ceased with
appt. as U. S. marshal, 271, ordered
to fund. acct., 333; H. R. resol. re-
quests Pres. to safeguard, re lands in
Fla., 964—965; in safe keeping, 301;
Jackson: explains Span. delay in
transfer of, 337, replies to protests of
Span. minister re seizure, 335–343;
keeper of: Law appd., 361, refuses re-
turn of papers by land commrs., 746,
removes to govt. house, 301, Rey-
nolds appa., 575 n.; mode of Span.
keeping, 731; neither delivered nor
removed by Span., 114; not delivered
to Butler, 177; ownership subject to
further negot., 112; private papers
boxed for ship. to Havana, 346;
queries: by Butler to Coppinger re
transfer, 62, by Reynolds to Sec.
State re retention of Estrada and
Kindelan corresp., 745; repts.: action
of commrs. on, 419–420, sent to Sec.
State and Jackson re proceeds. on,
374; St. Augustine city council re-
comd. return of, by Span., 205; seiz-
ure by Jackson's order, discussed or
ment., 238–239, 247, 248, 272, 301–
302, 327, 345–346, 365, 649, 667–668,
824, 826; selects. from, for use of land
bd., 903; settle. of accts. of clk. to
commrs. to secure, discussed, 520;
status re private property, 116; sur-
render by Span. ment., 62,68; temp.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X 993
dispos. made of, 177; those not rele-
vant to property or soverg. of E. and
W. Fla. to be returned to Span., 657;
to be fund. to Sec. State, 272; to be
turned over to Worthington, 99;
transfer by Coppinger, 722, 735, 755–
756, 757, 758, 759; transfer to U. S.
discussed, 344; unwanted papers to
be delivered to Hernandez for return
to Cuba, 657; Worthington: awaits
order re disposal of, 301, believes
Span. carried part to Habana 365,
repts. lack of possession of, 192,
seizes, 238–239. See also Baird,
Thomas J.; Bell, Capt. John R.;
Cross, Maj. Trueman; Forbes, James
G.; Jackson, Gov. Andrew; Law,
Edmund; Worthington, William G. D.
Archives (Span. W. Fla.), Alvarez appa.
keeper of, 575 n.; Callava attempts to
retain, 277; Forbes' negots. at Havana
discussed, 69; forced transfer by
Callava held an error, 255–256; in-
dividual land titles discussed, 85;
Jackson authd. to receive, 12; ordered
by Mahy to be transfö. to U. S., 337;
Mahy evades delivery of docs. found
in Havana, 100; many land papers
believed removed to Havana, 152,
516; note re, 123; query re transport
to Havana, 11; possession discussed,
93–94, 97; reception discussed, 36–37;
Spain protests seizure, 260; to be
retained by U. S., 123; transfer to
U. S. compelled, 243.
Arkansas Territory, compens. of supt.
Indians, 775; Indian manag. in, 690,
691; resid. of Pénières in, 25, 165.
Arnao, Clara, signer, 762.
Arnau, Esteban (Stephen), grand juror,
960; signer, 367, 371, facing 702, 704,
762, 764.
Arnau, Gaspar, signer, 704.
Arnau (Arnao), Jayme, signer, facing
702, 704, 762.
Arnau, José, signer, 816.
Arnau, Martin, signer, 814, 816, 819.
Arnau, Pedro, signer, 816.
Arnaw (Arnau ?), Joseph, signer, 819.
Arnold, Amos, signer, 449.
Arraco (Cuba), rel. to Key West, 411.
Arredondo, Fernando de la Maza,
applic. to survey grant denied, 270;
appd. to carry orders for delivery of
Fla., 95; archival records offered to,
419, 420; atty. for Coppinger, 419;
bearer of letters on the Nonsuch, 64;
carries: Mahy's instrs. to Coppinger,
89, 90, order for transfer of E. Fla. to
U. S., 97; declines to accept returned
papers, 419,420; helps pay Bell's fine,
269 m.; legality of Span. grant queried,
270–271; let. re Span. grant to, sent
to Sec. War, 269; resid. of, 213;
signer, 367, 371, facing 702, 761, 764.
Arredondo, F. M., Sr., signer, 761.
Arredondo, Joseph M., signer, 986.
Arredondo, Juan, signer, 761.
Arredondo, Ygnacio (Ygno) M., signer,
facing 702.
Arredondo land grant, ment., 212, 827;
origin and loc. of, 235.
Arrellano, Tomas, signer, 310, 315.
Arribas, F., signer, 760.
Articles of Agreement, transf. W. Fla.
to U. S., 122–124.
Artillery, garrison at Fernandina, 48;
to occupy: Fla., 20, Pensacola, 108;
transfö. from Boston to Charleston
and Fernandina, 46 n.
Ashton, John, signer, 566.
Atkinson, Brig. Gen. Henry, retention
in army discussed, 163, 164.
Atlantic Ocean, to be joined by rq. to
Gulf of Mexico, 729.
Attorney General, Wirt, agrees with
Bishop England re right of Span. king
to grant lands to church, 492; believes:
Jackson in error re forcing Callava to
transfer archs., 255–256, Jackson
wrong in treatment of Fromentin,
256, Pres. should assume direct. Fla.
affairs, 256–257; criticizes critics of
Fromentin, 254; health of, 242; letters
to: Pres., 250–258, 267–269, Sec.
State, 492; let. to, from Pres., 242–
243; let. to Pres. sent to Hamilton,
498; ment., 667; opinion requested re
Jackson's salary, 40; opinions re:
Fromentin's fitness for office, 253–255,
Jackson's exercise of power, 253, 254,
255, 256, 257, legality of Fromentin's
use of habeas corpus, 250–253, powers
For identical maines, see indez note, p. 988
301867–57 64



994
I N DE X
of U. S. govrs. in transition period,
250–251, use of troops to suppress
timber depreds. sent to terr. officials
and land officers in Fla., 373 m.; query
by, re date of grants to church, 492;
query to, by Pres. relegality of Jack-
son's actions against Callava and
Fromentin, 242–243; recomds. study
of Bell case by Jackson, 269; unable
to pass on auth. of Pres. in Bell case,
268–269.
Attorneys (E. Fla. dist.), believe U. S.
marshal chief exec. officer of sup. ct.,
667.
Auguana, a slave, 324.
Augusta (Ga.), Beers native of, 5.
Aurora Borealis, light vessel, transfö.
from Miss. r. to Pensacola, 650 n.
Austin, A., petit juror, 613 n.
Austin, Jeremiah (Jerimiah), petit juror,
613 n.; signer, 322.
Austin, John, signer, 289.
Austin's hotel, in Pensacola, Capt.
Henley to be entertained at, 848.
Avery, David, petit juror, 610; signer,
289.
Avril, L, signer, 288, 310, 315.
Ayers, Henry, signer, 858.
Aylett, William, of Ala., solicits post of
coll. customs, Pensacola, 52 n.
Ayres, Samuel, appt. as inspec. customs,
Key West, approved, 615; assumes
duty as: act. coll. at Key West on
advice, 852, coll. customs, Key West,
920; buys boat for rev. service, 920;
fwds. rept., 920; inspect. customs,
Key West, 920 n.; letters ment. to:
Sec. Treas., 921, Yancey, 723; letters
to: Anderson, 920–921, Sec. Treas.,
852; query by, re duty on vessels
from Cuba and Bahamas, 920; re-
comds. appt. inspect. customs, Key
Vacus, 852, 921; rents blog. for cus-
tom house, 920; solicits leave, 921.
Ayres, Sergeant, recomd. as Indian
subagt., 923.
Ayuntamiento, town council, transfer
completed in presence of, 112.
Backhouse, Thomas, signer, 814, 816,
819.
Bacon, John L., petit juror, 613 n.
Bagby, Rep. Thomas, of Md., recomas.
Worthington for office, 35 n.
Bagly, Peter, signer, 477, 566.
Bahama Islands, agt. in, to import
slaves, 38; corresp. with govr. of,
ment., 707; fug. slaves from Fla. on,
745, 763; query re duties on ships
from, at Key West, 920; wreckers
ship goods of wrecked vessels to, 684.
See also New Providence.
Bail, excessive prohibd., 398; inhabs.
entitle to, except in capital cases, 397.
Bailey (Baily), Lewis, ment., 934; petit
juror, 934.
Bain (?), Francisco, signer, 289.
Baird, Lt. Thomas J., agt. to receive
inventories, islands, and pub. blags.,
79–80; ordered to confer with Cross
in St. Augustine, 47; to rec. Span.
land records, 85 m., 86.
Baker, John Martin, appd. inspector of
customs, 56; former U. S. consul,
Spain and Italy, 56; Jefferson's inter-
est in, 56; salary pa. as clk., State
Dept., 531.
Balada, Jose, signer, 309, 314.
Balderas, Antonio, signer, 309, 314.
Balize, The, ment., 144.
Ballard, Charles, signer, 477.
Ballard, David S., signer, 288.
Baltimore (Md.), agt. from, to import
slaves, 38; Gadsden to try to cash bills
payable in, 41; home of Worthington,
35; ment., 212, 472, 921; Murray on
board ship to, 461; Worthington:
appd. from, 157, delays in, 158, leaves
for St. Augustine, 180, returns to, 500,
to give bond in, as U. S. marshal, 483.
Banister, John F., signer, 287.
Bank of the Metropolis, Maury's check
on, in payt. of Walton, 792.
Barbarita, Span. packet schooner, carries
forty days' rations on trip to Havana,
88.
Barbe, Francis, signer, 814, 816.
Barbier, Diego, signer, 310, 315.
Barbour, J., signer, 901.
Barbour, Rep. Philip P., of Va., Speaker,
H. R., let. cited to Jackson, 351 m.;
let. to, from Overton and Ware, 563–
565; signs acts, 399, 428, 639.
Barclay, John, signer, 323.
For identical names, see inder mote, p. 988



I N DE X
995
Barco, Manuel del, grand juror, 613 n.;
signer, 289, 309, 314, 625.
Bardin, William, petit juror, 963 n.
Bardstown (Ky.), Gaither visits, 680.
Barela, Joaquin, signer, 290, 310, 315.
Barker, Nathaniel, signer, 814, 816.
Barkley, George W., agt. to rec. Gar-
nier's pay, 661; Garnier draws bill in
favor of, 618, 642; grand juror, 613 n.;
let. ment. to Maury, 618; let. to
Maury, 574; signer, 289; solicits payt.
to Garnier for services, 574.
Barnett (Barnet), Col. William, affid.
re unfriendly remarks of Brackenridge
about Steele, 877–878; affids. ment.:
against Steele, 974, 977, re Bracken-
ridge's opinion of Steele, 869, 870;
appd.: alderman, Pensacola, 131,
member legis. council, 640–641, justice
of peace and quorum, Pensacola, 132;
ceases to employ Steele as atty., 877;
characterized, 869; declines: appt. as
justice co. ct., 662, office, 132 n.; finds
Steele incompet. as atty., 911; grand
juror, 613 n.; recoma. for legis.
council, 616, 803; recomás.: Browne-
john as U. S. marshal, 591 n., Wyche
as member legis. council, 423 n.; will
not attend legis. council in St. Augus-
tine, 682.
Baron (Barron), Carlos (Charles), petit
juror, 612; signer, 289, 310, 315.
Baron, Carlos L., witness, 614 n.
Barrancas, alter. routes to, from Pensa-
cola, 653; base of operations against
pirates, 259; exchange of flags, 124;
inspect. of customs at, 199; ment.,
698; no. of troops to occupy, 108;
orders re exchange of flags, 108–109;
ordnance at, worthless, 153; ra. to
Pensacola: completed, 851, survey
deferred, 653; to be occupied by troops
from Mobile, 20; two companies sta-
tioned at, 538; transfer ment., 144.
See also Fort Barrancas.
Barracks, Pensacola, cond. of, 153, 155;
estim. of cost of repairs, 162; in state
of ruin, 162. See also St. Francis
Barracks (St. Augustine).
Barrios, Sebastian, house on Palafax St.,
Pensacola, 886; petit juror, 610, 613
n., 614 n.; receipt sent to Sec. War,
598; signer, 289, 309, 314, 625.
Barrister, John F., signer, 322.
Barrows (Barrow), John G., grand juror,
933; petit juror, 614 n., 823; witness,
614 n.
Barry, William T., of Ky., recomas.:
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.,
Shannon for appt., 132 n.
Bartlett, George, Jr., signer, 321.
Bartlett, William, signer, 350, 367.
Barton, David, of Mo. Terr., recomds.
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Barton, James, signer, 858.
Bassilliet, J., signer, 288.
Batelongue (Batlongues),
signer, 288, 310, 315.
Bates, Del. James W., of Ark. Terr.,
recomas.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Bates, Joseph D., signer, 289.
Bates, William, signer, 322.
Baton Rouge (La.), Burch returns from,
to Pensacola, 653; removal of troops
from, discussed, 778–779.
Bauve, Francisco, signer, 309, 314.
Bay, Andrew, of S. C., recomd. as dist.
atty., 50 n.
Baya, Antonio, signer, facing 702.
Bay of Honda, Cuba, in rel. to Key
West, 411.
Bay of St. Louis (Miss.), Willis at, 225.
Bays, Joseph, petit juror, 611, 613 n.;
signer, 287.
Bean, Amos, claims protection as U. S.
cit., 719; leaves the Centilla at Key
Wacus, 719.
Bean, Antonio, signer, 704.
Bean, Jose, signer, 761.
Beauman's ferry, on Escambia r., 756.
Beckley, John, nativity, 357; removed
from E. Fla., 357; succeeds Fitch as
presid. justice, St. Johns Co., 357.
Beecher, Rep. Philemon, of Ohio,
recomds. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Beeler, Charles, petit juror, 613 n.;
signer, 288, 323.
Beeler, Thomas, petit juror, 610; signer,
289, 322.
Beeler's ferry, ment., 698; recomd.
against, as route for rd. to Pensacola,
Vincente,
For identical names, see index mote, p. 988T



996 I N DE X
736, route by, to Ft. Mitchell not
chosen, 924. See also Florida.
Beers, Jonathan Sturgis, appa. p. m.,
St. Augustine, 169; arrival of, 169;
date of assum. office, 169 n.; let.
ment. to PMG, 102; let. to, from
Bradley, 102; no fixed salary as p.m.,
102; opens office, 171 n.; recomd. as
p.m., 5; resigns, 361.
Beiler (Beeler), Thomas, petit juror,
613 n.
Belin, Lewis, witness, 937 n.
Bell, Gamaliel, petit juror, 613 n.
Bell, Garick, petit juror, 613 n.
Bell, Capt. John R., act. secy. and act.
govr., E. Fla.: acct. for compens. and
expenses sent to Jackson and to Sec.
State, 247, 303, acks. let. to Worth-
ington, 209, acts under authority of
Jackson, 268, appd., 113, 114, 115,
120, 166, 179, 215, 336, 345, appts.
by, 179, appts. Fitch temp. atty.
genl., 132–133, appts. Gay to investig.
St. Augustine archs., 175, 176–177,
assumes duties of Worthington, 113,
compens. as, 133 n., 177 n., copies of
appts. by, sent to Sec. State and
Jackson, 179, corresp. ment. with
Worthington, 298, date of begin.
of admin., 124, 125, encls. papers to
Worthington re horse thief, 180,
encloses to Sec. State list of officers
under Spain continued under U. S.,
179, exercises powers held by Cop-
pinger, 181, expects Worthington to
organize govt. on arrival, 169, fuvds.
docs. to Sec. State, 175, funds. to
Worthington docs. left by Butler,
180 n., instrs. to, by Butler, 114,
needs legal advice in admin. of office,
133, official docs. placed in hands of,
114, query by, re compens., 176, recs.
dispatches from Jackson, 169, re-
comds. Patterson as St. Johns Co.
clk., 195, repts. by, re affairs of E.
Fla., 124–125, 125–127, 132–133,
169–171, Reynolds private secy. to,
415, service ment., 205, 209, signs
comm., 177, solicits Jackson's aid in
procuring pay for service as, 303,
tenure and pay as, 133 n., to hand
official docs. to Worthington on ar-
rival, 114, to receipt to Butler for
official docs., 114, transfers civil
power to Worthington, 193, transfers
official docs. to Worthington, 177–
180; courtmartial, milit., and misc.:
arrest discussed or ment., 267–269,
805, command in good order, 46, 48,
commands at Ft. St. Marks, 215, court
martial and sentence discussed, 409
n., death of, 409 n., fine against, paid,
269 n., legal status as prisoner de-
pends on Span. laws, 268, orders re-
moval of troops from port, 246, per-
sec. of, ment., 668, query re authority
of Pres. to free from custody, 268,
sentence remitted, 409 n., suit brought
against, 246, transfö. to Savannah,
409 n., letters ment. to: Arredondo
270, Jackson, 205, 209, 303, 335, 336,
339, 340, Maury, 674, mayor, St.,
Augustine, 215, Sec. State, 132–133,
176, Sec. War, 164, 182,219, 509, 533,
Worthington, 175, 222, 249; letters to:
Jackson, 245–247, Maury, 667–668,
Sec. State, 124–125, 132–133, 169,
175–176, 344–346, Sec. War, 46–47,
125–127, 169–171, 197, 269-271, 409–
410, Worthington, 177–180, 215–217;
letters to, from: Butler, 114–115, Jack-
son, 303–304, Maury, 674, Sec. War,
164–165, 219–222, 450, Worthington,
222, 277; rift with civil authority:
author. re disposal of pub. bligs., 215,
command occupies council room, 306,
complains of pressure from civil offi-
cials for use of pub. bligs., 197, com-
plains to Jackson re civilian demands,
245–247, conflict with Worthington re
use of pub. blågs., 215–217, describes
dispute with civil officials, 245–246,
demands use of council room for
troops, 218, forbids erect. pub. blógs.,
245, let. to Jackson discussed re, 303,
let. to Worthington sent to city coun-
cil, 223, lets. viewed as indecorous,
228, offers temp. accomds. to Worth-
ington, 191, ordered to move from
govt. house, 274, orders arrest of Fair-
banks, 246, orders city council from
govt. house, 228, orders requested for,
re, 224, urges Worthington to pro-
vide quarters for Charity Soc., 217;
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
997
of Pénières, 164–165, in possess. of
Indian dept. funds, 549, instrs. to,
as Indian agt., 220–222, issues rations
to Indians, 244, knowledge re Indian
affairs, 497, leaves with DuVal for
Washington, 328, lets. ment. to Sec.
War, 285, loc. of corresp. with Dexter
and Wanton, 244 n., measures to con-
centrate Seminoles, 508, memo. to
Metcalfe re Indian settls., 463–465,
opposes Levy's license to buy live-
stock, 410, ordered to confer with
Seminoles, 208 n., ordered to place
unspent Indian funds at DuVal's dis-
posal, 509, pay as temp. Indian agt.,
221–222, plans return to St. Augus-
tine, 510, prepares plan for talk with
Indians, 409, present at talk with
Indians, 194, proposed talk with
Indians, 270, queries legality of Span.
land grants without consent of In-
dians, 270–271, reads lets. of Richards
and Doyle to Jackson, 409, recs.
inform. re Indian rels., 328, recomd.
as Indian agt., 181, 241, 244, 245,
249, recomd. to act for DuVal at
Indian conf., 558, recomas. appt. of
agt. to Seminoles, 465, recomils.
explor. country betw. St. Augustine
and Pensacola, 410, recomds. removal
of Indians from e. of Suwannee r., 410,
recomas. sites for Indian agcy., 410,
refuses request for survey of Arre-
dondo's grant until title is clear, 270,
rept. by, re Indian affairs, 409–410,
repts. Seminoles fail to appear at
conf., 294, serves as Indian agt. until
arrival of Humphreys, 474, service as
commr. to Seminole conf. suggested,
518, settle. of accounts re Indian
affairs ment., 410, solicits appt. as
Indian agt., 430 n., talk to Seminoles
sent to, by Worthington, 277, to con-
vene Seminoles for talk, 263, 277, to
give instrs. to Pénières, 221, to rec.
Pénières’ papers, 264, unable to give
views of govt. Indian policy, 495,
unfavor. opinion of Pénières, 170–171,
212, writes from Washington, 409.
Bell, Thomas B., petit juror, 611.
Bell (Beall), William A., petit juror, 610,
seizure of Span. E. Fla. archives: appd.
commr. to receive archs., 362, 541,
593, 667, appts. Gay to inspect St.
Augustine archs., 176–177, believes
Coppinger's papers ready to be moved
to Havana, 346, believes many docs.
taken to Havana, 345, compens.
sent to, for services in exam. archs.,
674, desires settle. of claims re, 667–
668, discovers archs. being pilfered,
345, joins Law and Forbes in present-
ing acct. for services, 541, length of
service, 596, ordered to fund. to Sec.
State certified copies of lets. re trans-
fer of archs., 335, query by, re pay
to members of archs. comm., 668,
receipt by, re docs. relating to soverig.
of E. Fla. encla. to Jackson, 165,
rept. by, to Sec. State re, 345–346,
takes step to preserve archs., 340,
without diplom. status, 340; service re
Indian affairs: act. Indian agt., 495,
advises employ of Indian agt., 181,
advises proper season for Indian
treaty negots., 410, appd. act. Indian
agt., 208 n., 220, 222–223, 263, 278,
arranges prelim. for treaty with
Seminoles, 409–410, asked to confer
with Pelham re Indian business
during latter's absence, 474–475, as-
sembles stores for Seminole Indians,
126, assigned to hold Seminole conf.,
280, authd. to appt. Richards as
Indian interp., 279, believes Seminoles
should be offered assurances, 170,
comm. as temp. Indian agt., 222–223,
corresp. cited re, 328 n., corresp.
ment. with Dexter and Wanton, 278,
court martial prevents conf. with
Indians, 409, date of arrival in Wash-
ington, 328 n., date of leaving St.
Augustine for Washington, 364–365,
declines temp. duty, 497, 498, de-
clines to act for Pelham, 328 n., 497,
desires instrs. re survey Span. claims,
271, employs Richards as interp., 519,
employs Vignoles, 754 n., encloses
Dexter's talk to Indians, 205, 209,
fails to secure appt. as Indian agt.,
328 n., 450, forbids Span. traders in
Indian country, 271, Indians fail to
meet with, 508, informed re status
613 n.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



998
I N D E X
Bell, William H., libel suit against, as
smuggler, 959; witness, 614 n.
Bellamè (Bellamy), Abraham, appd. and
comma. to legis. council, 913; endorses
Jacksonville as port of entry, 476; let.
to Sec. State, 476; member legis.
council, 476 n.; recomd. for legis.
council, 859; signer, 477, 565, 986.
Bellamy, Abraham, Jr., signer, 764.
Bellamy (Bellame, Bellume), John,
appd. and comma. member legis.
council, 640–641; foreman grand jury,
822; let. ment. to PMG, 932; let. to,
from PMG, 932; recomd. for legis.
council, 616; signer, 478, 565.
Bellevue (Belvue), Capt. Francis B. de,
stationed on Key West, 780.
Bells River, petit juror from, 935.
Bender, Capt. George, ordered to arrange
transport of troops to occupy E. Fla.,
14 n.; to hire troop ships in Boston,
22, 30.
Benet (Bennett), Pedro (Peter), appd.
police officer, St. Augustine, 120;
petit juror, 799, 962; signer, 372,
facing 702, 704, 761.
Benites, Julian, signer, 310, 315.
Bennett, Zacheriah, petit juror, 613 n.
Bennett, Z., signer, 322.
Benson, H. Z., recomds. Luckett as
land commr., 849 n.
Bentheim, S. E., signer, 287.
Benton, Thomas H., of Mo. Terr.,
recomds. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Beral, Francisco, signer, 310, 314.
Bergallo, Jose, signer, 816.
Bergallo, Joseph, signer, 813.
Bernard, Simon, and Totten, let. to,
from Ch. Engr., 808.
Berrien, John M., of Ga., cand. for appt.
as land commr., 429 n.
Berta, Mariano Antonio, signer, 761.
Bertrand, Francisco, witness, 614 n.
Bertrand, Pierre, signer, 309, 314, 625.
Bethune, Farquhar, appd.: justice of
quorum, 194 n., secy. to archs.
commrs., 362, 593; cand. for elec. as
terr. deleg., 693; grand juror, 960;
judge, St. Johns Co., 357; ment., 520;
nativity, 357, 361; notary pub. at
Amelia Island, 361; no. of votes recd.
in elec. for terr. deleg., 693 n.; recomd.
for legis. council, 423 n., 616; recomds.
Hanham as U. S. marshal, 639 n.;
resides on Amelia Island, 441; resigns
as secy. to archs. commrs., 593; re-
turns to Amelia Island, 593; salary
pd. as assoc. judge, St. Johns Co. ct-,
632; signer, 814, 817; takes naturaliz.
oath, 434.
Bicker, Henry, petit juror, 610, 613 n.;
signer, 323; witness, 614 n.
Bickley, John, appd. justice of quorum,
190 n.
Big Bayou, bridge not completed, 851;
on Barrancas-Pensacola route, 653.
Big Hammock, in rel. to Seminole reserv.
bound., 905; Indian settle., 464.
Bigler, Patrick (Patick), signer, 288.
Biglow, Horatio, signer, 183.
Big Spring (Jackson Co.), sup. ct. held
at, 936.
Biola, Jose, signer, 310, 315.
Bioren and Co., publish acts of Cong.,
486.
Birch,-, fug. from E. Fla. in Ga., 432.
Bird, John G., appd.: clk. to commrs. to
secure and exam. Span. archs., 362,
520, 593, 667, U.S. atty. for E. Fla.,
48, 49–50, 51, 100, 168, 356, 647; bears
Jackson's lets. to: Bell, 340, Worthing-
ton, 168, 209, 238; death from yellow
fever, 800, 356, 667; delay in arrival
at St. Augustine, 50 n., 179, 195, 225,
238; discharged as clk. to archs.
commrs., 593; let. to, from Sec. State,
100–101; misdirected to Pensacola
instead of St. Augustine, 50 m.;
nativity, 356; pay for services and
expenses, 356 n.; tenure as U.S. atty.,
50.
Birk, Elijah, signer, 287.
Bisquera, Bartholome, signer, 309, 314.
Bissell, Nathaniel, signer, 289.
Black, A., signer, 292.
Black, John, petit juror, 961.
Black, William, signer, 477.
Black Creek, grand jurors from, 797,
933, 960; Indian settle., 464; open to
navig., 384; petit jurors from, 823,
935; U. S. troops used to prevent
destruct. of pub. timber on, 726; we
of St. Johns_r., 384.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X 999
Blacksmith shop (St. Augustine), re-
comd. re improvement of, 203.
Black vomit, 8ee Yellow fever.
Bladensburg (Md.), ment., 242.
Blair, William M., appa. and comma.:
judge sup. ct. (Middle Fla.), 805 n.,
953–954, 966, land commr., E. Fla.
dist., 656, 805–806; comm.: as land
commr. not sent, 805 n., as sup. judge
sent, 954 n.; death of, 656 n., 985;
desires appt. of relative to land ba.,
946–947; Hamilton disagrees with, as
land commr., 945, 946, 949; illness of,
941; land commr., 944; let. ment. to
Johnson, 949; let. to Sec. Treas. dis-
cussed, 949–950; opinion ment. re
transf. archs. to land commrs., 759;
opposes retention of land title docs.
by land commrs. for copying, 965;
recoma. as: judge, 43 n., 954 n., terr.
secy., 44 n., U. S. atty., 50 n.; term
as sup. ct. judge, 954; votes for return
of land papers to keeper of archs., 731.
Blake, George W., signer, 298.
Blake, T., of N. Y., solicits appt. as
judge, 43 n.
Blakeley (Blakly), Ala., Burch offers to
open road to, 767; connects with Mo-
bile by steam ferry, 698, 765; descrip.
of rd. from Pensacola in oper., 698
764–765; distance to Mobile, 765;
one of three routes to Pensacola re-
comd. for improv., 764–765; Jackson
moves from, to Montpelier, 137;
Jackson writes from, 137; loc. of, 12;
nearest mail point to Fla. (1821), 12.
Blockhouses, Pensacola, cond. of, 153,
156, 162; discussed, 984–985.
Bloodgood, Lt. William A., illness of,
780; stationed on Key West, 780; to
be sent home, 780; witness, 614 n.
Blount (Blunt), John, Seminole chief,
allowed compens. for services with
Jackson, 519; attends St. Marks to
meet govr., 578; distrusts sincerity of
govt., 578; guide to Jackson during
first Seminole war, 502; holds talk
with DuVal, 501, 503; no claim on
govt., 519; proposes St. Augustine-
Pensacola rd., 502; reserv, for, 749,
970; resid. at O-chuse-ulga, 464; talk
ment. with Jackson, 464; visits: Jack-
son with Neamathla, 210, Pensacola
to learn reason for cancel. of treaty
conf., 597, Washington with Hambly,
519.
Blount (Blunt), Wilee (Wiley), petit
juror, 937; witness, 937 n.
Bludworth, John D., petit juror, 934;
signer, 477.
Bluff, The, on St. Johns r., recomd. as
port of entry, 476.
Blunt, Capt. W., master of the Gen.
Call på. for ship. stores from New
Orleans to Pensacola, 916.
Blunt's Town, liquor sold to Indians at,
673.
Board of Aldermen, see Aldermen.
Board of Health (St. Augustine), appt.
of members of, 121; ment., 228;
resol. ment., 249; resol. ment. re
removal from center of city, 215;
resol. re removal of hospital from
center of city, 219; resol. re removal
of hospital sent to Eustis, 214.
Board of Land Commissioners, see Land
Commissioners.
Board of Pilotage (St. Augustine), appt.
of members of, 121.
Boggy Swamp, petit jurors from, 823,
935.
Bohannon, A. H., signer, 322.
Boisclair, Peter, of Ga., recomd. for
appt. as U. S. marshal, 4 n., 46 n.
Boland, Francis, signer, 986.
Bonal, Francisco, signer, 288, 309, 314.
Bone Key, see Key West.
Bonely, Maria, signer, 761.
Bonifay, Felix, signer, 310, 315.
Bonifay, John, signer, 309, 314, 625.
Bonifay, José, petit juror, 613 n.
Bonifay, Joseph, grand juror, 613 n.;
signer, 289.
Bonifay, Manuel, grand juror, 896;
signer, 310, 315.
Bonner, John, appd. p. m., Claiborne,
Ala., 916 n.
Bon Secour Bay (Ala.), trail from Pensa-
cola ends at, 765.
Boston (Mass.), Gadsden to try to cash
bills payable in, 41; Sec. State visits,
213; troops from, ment., 58; troops
from, to occupy: Amelia Island, 20, 30,
St. Augustine, 22, 30, 41.
For identical names, see indea: note, p. 988



1000 I N DE X
183, 287, 481; tenure as councilor,
423; Walton consults on action re
Indian messages, 305.
Brackenridge (Breckenridge), Judge
Henry M., accepts appt. as terr.
judge, 489; acks. receipt of comm.,
451 n., 956 n.; affid. sworn before,
883; affids. unfavor. to, discussed,
869–871; alleged protect. of Coulons,
870, 874; appd. and commd. sup.
judge, W. Fla., 38 n., 451, 954–955;
appts.: clk. sup. ct., 505, White act.
dist. atty., 737, 739, 781; comm. foºd.
to, 451 n., 956 m.; deport. of, a topic
of convers., 976; doubts Robinson's
accept. of appt. as marshal, 505;
escapes yellow fever, 531; examines
and allows claims of grand and petit
jurors, 938; fears depreds. on timber
lands, 648; letters ment. to: Anderson,
771, Sullivan, 648; lets. to Sec. State,
505–506, 647–648, 739, 860–862; let.
to, from Scott, 740–741; mentions
lawyers as trustworthy, 877; news of
appt. not recd. at Pensacola, 479;
opinion discussed in U. S. v. Riley,
692; order sent to Sebree for arrest of
Riley, 883; orders: pub. blóg. repaired
for use as court house and jail, 770,
Steele imprisoned on contempt charge,
973, 979; recs. laws U. S. and other
docs., 648; recomd. as sup. judge, W.
Fla., 317–318; recomas.: Maury to
Walton re settle. of accts., 768, Rua
and Noriega for appt. to legis. council,
490, T. White as U. S. marshal, 957
n.; refuses Steele's motion re record.
and publ. grand jury presents., 875,
876; removed by Pres. Jackson, 39
n.; rept. on actions of, 875–876; rift
with U. S. atty. Steele, 739, 860–862,
866–867, 869–871, 952, 967, 972, 976–
977; salary pa. as sup. ct. judge, 630;
satisfied with White's actions as act.
U. S. atty., 652; tenure, 451, 955; to
fwd. recomd. of Williams for appt.
to legis. council, 833; unfavorable
opinion of Steele, 860–862, 869–871.
Braddock, John D., grand juror, 822;
signer, 566, 814, 817, 819.
Braddock, William, signer, 566.
Bradford, C., signer, 310, 315.
Boston Packet, a sloop, carries stores,
Pensacola to Tampa Bay, 916.
Boswell, John, signer, 401.
Bouguie (Bougit), Francis, petit juror,
612.
Boundary lines, Seminole reserv., dis-
cussed, 752–754, 778; not completed,
922; rept. of survey of, 905–907, 968–
971; to be survd. and run,818.
Bouquié, J., grand juror, 613 n.
Bouquié, -, acct. sent to Sec. State,
843; affid. ment. re acct., 843; jailer
at Pensacola, 843.
Bouquit, Francis, petit juror, 614 n.
Bowden, J. M., takes naturaliz. oath,
435.
Bowen, D., signer, 322.
Bowen, J., signer, 292.
Bowen, Joel, signer, 292.
Bowie, George, appa. mayor, Pensacola,
131; signer, 183.
Bowie (Buoy), Judge —, holds co. ct.
sess. in Pensacola, 862; presides at
trial, 874.
Bowles, William, half-breed Indian,
murders white men, 503.
Boyce, James R., surgeon's mate, leaves
for Norfolk with sick seamen, 776.
Boyce, William P. J., witness, 614 n.
Boyle, John, clk., office of Sec. Navy,
792 n.; to inquire re illegal timber
cargo, 792.
Boyoyette, Seth, signer, 292.
Bozeman, Etheldred, signer, 322.
Brackenridge (Breckenridge), Henry
M., appd.: alcalde and notary, Pen-
sacola, 131, 158, 168, commr. to exam.
archs. and other property in W. Fla.,
147, 152, member legis. council, 422;
bears let. to Callava, 137; certif.
ment., 150; confers with Callava, 74;
critic of Fromentin, 254; Jackson's
approval of, 162; notary pub., affid.
sworn before, 324; note re, 38; opinion
ment. relegal U. S. occup. of Fla., 59
n.; rept. ment. re: condition of W. Fla.,
150, 152, Span. organiz. of W. Fla.,
158; resig. from legis. council, 422 n.,
489; secy. to diplom. mission to S.
Amer., 38 n.; sent to Pensacola with
letters to Span. officials, 38; signer,
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



I N D E X
1001
Bradford, Thomas H., of Ky., recoma.
as land commr., 718 n.
Bradley, Abraham, Jr., letters to: Beers,
102, Payne, 197.
Bradley, Thomas, signer, 297.
Brady, Francis, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Brady, Capt. Francis W., charters brig
William and Mary at Mobile, 835.
Brady, John, signer, 477.
Branch, John, of N. C., declines appt.
as terr. judge, 416 n., 451 n., 479;
recomd. as terr. govr., 10 n., 469 n.
Branch pilot, Pensacola, appt. of, 131.
Braning (Branning), Andrew, grand
juror, 933; takes naturaliz. oath, 435.
Braning (Branning), George, ment., 935;
petit juror, 935.
Brannen, –, hired by A. Smith to draw
cedar trees to boat landing, 384.
Braxton, Corbin, signer, 349.
Breckenridge, Rep. James D., of Ky.,
recomds.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.,
Sebree as marshal, 591 n.
Breckenridge, John C., recomds.: Blair
as terr. secy., 44 n., Shannon for
office, 132 n.
Breen, Robert, affid. ment. against
Steele, 863 n.; libel suit against, as
smuggler, 959; petit juror, 610, 613
n.; signer, 287, 321; witness, 614 n.
Breen, Samuel, signer, 321.
Brent, Daniel, ch. clk., State Dept.,
fwds. new comm. as U. S. Atty., 507;
informs land commrs. (E. Fla. dist.)
of order to Reynolds to deliver pub.
docs., 734–735; let. ment. to E. Fla.
land commrs., 734; letters to: Edes,
267, Forbes, 213–214, Gould, 699,
Hamilton, 507, land commrs., 734–
735, Macon, 980, Worthington, 106–
107; order to Reynolds to transfer
archs. to land commis. discussed,
755, 756, 757, 758; requests: Floridian
sent to State Dept., 267 n., Gazette
sent to State Dept., 267.
Brewster, James, signer, 292.
Bridges, erect. ment., 605; nec. on Pen-
sacola-Ft. Mitchell rd., 856; on Pensa-
cola-Barrancas ra.: completed save
one, 851, cost exceeds estim., 851.
Brigadier General of Militia, recomds.
for, 529.
Briggs, Cyrus (Syrus), petit juror, 823;
signer, 477.
Bright, James, appd. and comd. to
legis. council, 913, grand juror, 936;
recoma. for legis. council, 859.
Brikley, John, signer, 349.
Brink, George, Jr., signer, 322.
Bromley (Bromly), Thomas, Lord
Chanc. of England, note re, 438.
Bronaugh (Bronough), Dr. James C.,
alleged interfer. of DuVal in favor of,
539; appd.: commr. to examine archs.
and other property in W. Fla., 147,
152, member legis. council, 73 n., 422,
private secy. to Jackson, 73 m.,
resident physician, Pensacola, 131;
arrival as councilor, 456; cand. for
elec. as deleg. to Cong., 73 n., 543,
544, 545; carries: Jackson's let. to
Pres., 275, 276, let. from Pres. to
Jackson, 350, let. to Callava, 137;
chosen pres. legis. council, 490 n.;
confers with Callava, 73, 149; con-
fined to Walton's house with yellow
fever, 557; death from yellow fever,
38 m., 73 n., 531, 535, 545, 546;
encla. Alba's acct. to Maury, 475;
friend of Walton, 768; informs Jack-
son of accept. of resig. by Pres., 335;
in Jackson's family group at Pensa-
cola, 259; Jackson's friend, 162; let.
to Maury, 475; notes re, 38, 73; or-
dered to confer with Callava re sign-
ing inventories, 159; pay as private
secy. to Jackson, 73 n.; proposed
visit to Washington, 298; recomd. as
rec., W. Fla., 73 n.; recomas.: Hayes
as judge, 43 n., Rua and Noriega for
appt. to legis. council, 490, Shomo as
marshal, 591 m.; repts. Callava's
refusal to sign inventories, 160; sent
to Pensacola with letters to Span.
officials, 38; sum allowed for services
ment., 478; tenure as councilor, 423;
to bear Jackson's resig. to Pres., 213.
Bronson, Martin, signer, 477.
Brooke (Brook), Lt. Col. George M.,
authd. to organ. garrisons of Pensa-
cola and Barrancas, 108; commands
at Montpelier, 39; commended by
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1002
I N D E X
Brosnaham
Gadsden for rapid move of troops to
Tampa Bay, 843; commends Burch
for promptness, 930; comments re
char. of land near Tampa Bay, 845;
concern re Span. fishermen and In-
dians at Charlotte Harbor, 815 n.;
confines prisoners for civil authority,
788; date of: arrival at Santo Spiritu
Bay, 844, embarking at Pensacola for
Tampa Bay, 844; desires add. cannon
and ammun. from Pensacola, 846;
Duvallet. delivd. to, 847; fears Indian
attack, 918–919; Gadsden requests
meet. with, at Tampa Bay, 802 n.:
has no person in command fit to
serve as clk., 944; in need of ox team,
914; instrs. to: to aid Walton, 238, to
arrest persons cut. timber on pub.
lands, 834; leads U. S. troops to Camp
Manuels, 92; letters ment. to: Kirby,
722, QMG, 834, Sec. War, 21 n., 403,
survr. genl., 918; letters to: Adjt. Genl.,
92–93, 702, Commd. Genl., 844–846,
918–919, QMG, 930–931; letters to,
from: DuVal, 834, Jackson, 238,
Kirby, 722, QMG, 834–835; moves
fourth regt. to Galvez Springs, 108;
no evid. of action re timber thieves,
835 n.; no. and type of tents needed
at Tampa Bay, 846; ordered to estab.
milit. post at Tampa Bay, 784–785;
plan for transp. troops from Pensacola
to Tampa Bay approved, 834; q. m.
at Pensacola to supply funds to, 835;
query by, re compliance with requisi-
tions from civil authorities, 403;
recomds. visit of navy vessels to
Tampa Bay, 845; rept. by, estab.
milit. post at Tampa Bay, 844–846;
requests: add. surgeons, 918, field
artillery from Pensacola, 919, leave
of absence, 919; sends copy of let. to
Scott, 919; succeeds Clinch in com-
mand of fourth regt., 702 n.; summons
Seminole chiefs for talk, 845; to con-
sult Gadsden re exact loc. of troops
station near Tampa Bay, 784; to
send Jackson's mail to Blakeley, 39.
Brooks, Joseph, petit juror, 937.
(Brosnahan), Dr. John
(Juan), applies in habeas corpus writ
for release of Callava, 185, 187; appd.
alderman, Pensacola, 131; grand juror,
613 n.; signer, 288, 311, 315, 625;
testimony in Gerrish assault case,
884–885; witness, 614 n.
Brothers, William, signer, 322.
Broward, Charles, grand juror, 822,933.
Broward, John, appd. j. p., St. Augus-
tine (Nassau River), 121; grand juror,
822, 933.
Brown, Austin, signer, 288.
Brown, C., signer, 288.
Brown, George, extract of let to Jack-
son sent to Sec. State, 262 n.
Brown, George I., explores St. Johns
river area, 212; recoma. for office, 212.
Brown, George J., of Md., cand. for appt.
as land commr., 429 n.
Brown, George S., of Md., recomd. for
appt. as Indian agt., 430 m.
Brown, Lt. Harvey, commended, 750;
encls. to QMG corresp. repub. blags.
in St. Augustine, 585; explains dispute
betw. civil and milit. powers re pub.
property, 585–586; let. to QMG, 585-
586; signer, 367.
Brown, Isaac, grand juror, 936.
Brown, Maj. Gen. Jacob, becomes com-
manding genl. of army, 21 n.; recomds.
J. L. Smith as govr., 469 m. See also
Commanding General, Brown.
Brown, John, signer, 287,814, 816, 819.
Brown, Joseph, signer, 477.
Brown, Leavin (Levin), grand juror,
936.
Brown, Nathaniel, signer, 289.
Brown, Thomas, Jr., signer, 477.
Brown, William, petit juror, 962; suc-
ceeds Farnham as lighthouse keeper,
St. Augustine, 361; signer, 858.
Brown, Dr. —, father of G. I. Brown,
212.
Brown, -, let. ment. re Arredondo
grant, 235.
Brown, –, solicits appt. in Fla., 279.
Browne, William, clk., State Dept., 980
n.; encls. form of certif. required for
pay of claims, 953; letters to: Allen,
981, Davison, 981, Mitchell, 980,
Perpall, 953; sends check to Mitchell,
for service as clk. of elec., 980.
Brownejohn, Thomas, appd. inspect. of
customs, 199; emplyd. to copy legis.
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



I N D E X 1003
918, 930; state. of transp. expenses of
q. m. dept., 915–916; to go to New
Orleans to cash drafts, 698.
Burch, Captain Daniel E., as supt.
road construction, Big Bayou bridge:
instrs. to, re build., 951, proposal re,
851; letters ment. to QMG, 676, 698,
924; letters to QMG, 653–654, 697–
699, 764–767, 851, 855–857, 968;
letters to, from: QMG, 605, 676, 683,
736–737, 837-838, 924, Walton, 607–
608; miscellaneous: illness prevents
early inspec. of routes, 653, 699, loc.
and estimates of proposed new roads,
764–767, ordered to acquire facts re
Pensacola-Mobile Point route, 683,
printed corresp. cited, 766 n., recomds.
one of three routes to Blakeley for
improvs., 764–765, rept. re roads
ment., 838, to prepare estimate re
opening roads from Pensacola to
Mobile, and to central Ala., 683;
Pensacola-Barrancas road: ordered to
locate best route for, 605, reptă.
complete, 851; Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell
road: begins oper. to open, 924, 968,
estimate of cost of, 856–857, recomds.
open. of, 698; Pensacola-St. Augustine
road: estimates re open. of, sent to
Sec. War, 606, instrs. to, re survey,
736–737, prepares for survey, 772–
774, to survey as mail route, 737,
width of, recomd., 609.
Burch, S., act. clk., H. R., certifies act,
639.
Bureau of the Customs, records de-
stroyed, 198 m.
Burgevin (Burgewain), Andrew, land
claim alleged a forgery, 966; signer,
350, 704, 761, 868; takes naturaliz
oath, 434.
Burgevin, Julia, signer, 761.
Burnt Barrack lot (St. Augustine),
recomd. for sale, 202.
Burnt Corn (Ala.), rd. to Taitsville, 765.
Burnt Corn Creek (Ala.), bridge needed,
856.
Burnt Hospital lot (St. Augustine),
recomd. for sale, 203.
Burton, Rep. Hutchins G., of N. C.,
recomds. Branch as govr., 10 n.
acts, 663; recomd. as U. S. marshal,
591; signer, 289.
Bru, Lorenzo, signer, 289, 309, 314, 625.
Bruister, Henry, signer, 322.
Bruister, James, signer, 322.
Bryant, Bartrun, signer, 322.
Buchanan, Rep. James, of Pa., let. to
Pres., 415; recomds. Reynolds for
appt. to legis. council, 415, 423 n.
Buchany, Juan, signer, facing 702.
Bucker Womans Town, Indian settle.,
464.
Buckles, S. E., signer, 477.
Buena Vista, distance from St. Augus-
tine, 363; timber depreds. near, 363,
378.
Buenos Aires (S.A.), Worthington spe-
cial agt. to, 56.
Bugoson, James Louis, signer, 288.
Bullen, John, signer, 450.
Bullock, George, signer, 288, 323.
Bulow, Charles W., heirs of, lot holders,
762; recoma. for legis. council, 616;
signer, 401.
Bunal (Bunce?), J., signer, 289.
Bunch, John, signer, 760.
Bunie, Joseph, signer, 323.
Bunker, Jonathan, petit juror, 937.
Burch, Capt. Daniel E., as asst. q. m.,
appts. Crupper as act. q. m., Pensa-
cola, 772; authd. to purch. vessel, 838
n.; buys schooner Florida, 927, 928;
charters the Florida to carry supplies
to troops, 914; discusses invoice of
goods shipped on the Mary to Tampa
Bay, 928; draft sent to, 697; encle.
papers re purch. of the Florida, 927;
letters ment. to: Page, 928, QMG, 683,
837, 914; lets. to QMG, 772–774, 835–
937, 838, 914–915, 927–928, 984–985;
let. to, from QMG, 683, 837; no prov.
to fill office during absence on rd.
survey, 772; recomds. sale of the
Amelia and purch. of new boat, 838;
rept. by, re transp. troops to Tampa
Bay, 835–836; requests: blockhouse in
center of street be removed, 984, of
QMG, copy of schedule pub. property
in Pensacola, 984; returns pub. blags.
to civil control, 698; sends the Florida
to New Orleans for coppering, 927;
service to Cant. Brooke commended,
For identical mames, see index note, p. 988



1004
I N D E X
Bush, B. L., recomd. for legis. council,
490.
Butler, Col. Robert, acct. of trip from
Tenn. to St. Augustine, 166; agree.
with Coppinger re transfer archs. dis-
cussed, 327, 335-336; appd.: col.
fourth regt., 56, survr. pub. lands, 32
n., 942–943, to occupy St. Augustine
and rec. E. Fla., 32–35, 66, 111, 335;
appts.: Baird to rec. archs. on pub.
lands, 85 n., Cross to rec. archs. of E.
Fla., 85; approves Bell and his com-
mand, 48; archs. E. Fla. not delivered
to, 177; argues right of U. S. to ord-
nance in forts, 72–73; arrives at:
Fernandina, 97, Pensacola from St.
Augustine, 154; asks Coppinger's
views re kinds of property surrendered,
62; Bell's comm. and instrs. sent thru,
345; claims land records to protect
property rights, 106 n.; commission:
requested as proof of auth. to rec. E.
Fla., 64, sent to Coppinger, 66, to
occupy St. Augustine and E. Fla.,
34–35; Coppinger calls on, 81; dates:
arrival in Pensacola from St. Augus-
tine, 168, 335, depart. from St. Augus-
tine, 125, set to travel to Pensacola,
115; decides move to St. Augustine
to arrange transfer, 48; describes
classes of archs. proposed to be left in
St. Augustine, 105–106; discusses
plans for move of Span. troops to
Havana, 86–87; draws on Sec. State
for funds, 113; duties as E. Fla.
commr. completed, 113; encloses to
Jackson: corresp. with Coppinger,
165, inventory of pub. property in E.
Fla., 166; exch. of corresp. with
Coppinger re transfer of St. Augustine
and E. Fla., 59, 61–63, 66–69, 86–88,
102–103, 105–106, 107; fears Span.
intent to carry records to Cuba., 60;
furlough ment., 99; hands Bell his
comm. as act. secy. E. Fla., 166; holds
orig. inventory of arts. surrendered by
Span., 177; informed of Coppinger's
receipt of instrs., 81; instrs. by, to
Bell, 114, 175, 179; instrs. to: ment.,
140, re occup. St. Augustine and E.
Fla., 33–34, 97–99, sent, 146; invoices
of pub. blógs. and ports E. Fla. de-
livered to, 169, 170; isolated status in
E. Fla., 60–61; leaves for Pensacola
after induction of Bell, 345; letters
ment. to: Bell, 166, 179, Coppinger,
59, 63, 66, 72, 79, 80, 87, 88, 106, 116,
337, Jackson, 97, Sec. State, 115, 116,
Sec. War, 115; letters to. Bell, 114–115,
Coppinger, 59, 61–64, 72–73, 79–80,
86–87, 102–103, 105–106, Cross, 85,
Jackson, 165–167, 344, Sec. State,
60–61, 83, 112–113, 116, Sec. War,
48–49, 115; letters to, from: Coppinger,
63–64, 66–69, 80 n., 87–88, 106, 107,
Jackson, 32–35, 97–99, Sec. War, 63;
list of docs. sent to, re occup. St.
Augustine, 33; lists ordnance to be
retained by U. S., 80 m.; lodges protest
in Washington re lack of decision on
archs., 192; ment., 100, 135; notes re,
32, 942; occupies E. Fla., 181; omitted
from army list in reduc., 166; ordered
to: Amelia Island, 32, Pensacola after
taking possession of E. Fla., 99, resist
Span. claims to ordnance in forts, 33;
pessimism of, 60–61; plans completed
for move of Span. troops and goods
to Havana, 102–103; proposes com-
promise re ordnance, 79–80; provis.
comm. for, in event of Worthington's
absence, 105; queries by: re compens.
for taking possession E. Fla., 116, to
Coppinger re no. of persons to be sent
to Cuba, 62, to Coppinger re transfer
of St. Augustine, 59; raising rations
for Span. troops, 83; recomás.: W. E.
Butler as marshal, 46 n., Hayes as
judge, 43 n.; receives: Jackson's procl.
before transfer of E. Fla., 113, sur-
render of E. Fla., 190; repts. by, re:
agree. for transfer of St. Augustine,
83, arrival of Nonsuch with Span.
commrs., 61, certain offices filled in
E. Fla., 168, initiation, progress, and
completion of Span. evacua. of St.
Augustine and E. Fla., 60–63, 83,
112–114, 115–116, municipal organiz.
in St. Agustine, 151, occup. E. Fla.,
115, 116, 165; requests permit to
name fortress of St. Augustine, 49;
suggests change of name of Ft. St.
Marks (St. Augustine), 115; signs:
as U. S. commr., 111, transfer of E.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1005
Fla., 112; tenure as survn. pub. lands,
943; to contact Span. govr. of St.
Augustine, 34; to deliver to Jackson
inventory of arts, surrendered by
Span., 177; to proceed to Pensacola
via Darien, Ga., 115; transfs. comm.
as act. govr., E. Fla., 124; turns govt.
E. Fla. over to Bell, 115; unable to
raise funds by draft on Jackson, 61.
Butler, Dr. William E., of Tenn.,
recomd. for appt. as marshal, 46 n.
Buyck, A., admin. estate of G. Du Pont,
764; signer, 858.
Buyck's land grant, ment., 827.
Bynom, Dempsey, signer, 477.
Byrns (Burns), Anthony (Anthoy),
ment., 937; petit juror, 937.
Cabannas (Cuba), in rel. to Key West,
411.
Cahawba (Ala.), rd. laid out to, from
Pensacola, 766.
Gaines, George, of N. Y., recoma. as
judge, 43 n.
Calder, George H., signer, 322.
Caldwell, George, signer, 322.
Caldwell, John, Forbes' bill on State
Dept. in favor of, 370.
Calhoun, John C., see Secretary of War.
Call, Richard K., actg. secy. (W. Fla):
pay as, 139 n., recomd. as, 44 n.,
relieved by Walton, 457 n., service as,
139 n., signs comms., 105, 662, signs
procl., 111; apptd. commr. to examine
archives and other property in W. Fla.,
147, 152; arranges to occupy St.
Marks, 71; authd. to: arrange evacu.
St. Marks, 141, 142, open compromise
proposals re ordnance, 142; brig. geml.
of militia: appd. 529, signs genl. order,
665; cand. for terr. deleg., 693; carries
letters: Callava to Jackson, 141, Gads-
den to Callava, 138, Jackson to
Forbes, 95; confirms Blount's service
to Jackson, 502; dist. atty. (W. Fla.):
cand. for appt. as, 414 n., recomd.
as, 531, not appd., 532; elected terr.
deleg., 693 n.; Forbes converses with,
95; inströ. to: await arrival of the
Hornet at Pensacola, 138, ment., 143,
ment. re U.S. retention of ordnance,
145; Jackson's friend, 162; member of
legis. council: appd. and commd. as,
422, 640–641, arrives in St. Augus-
tine, 682, recomd. as, 616, salary, 631,
tenure, 423; non-arrival at Mont-
pelier, 39; note re, 39; pay for services
ment., 478; query re reason for trip
to New Orleans, 306; retained as capt.
in the line, 56; returns to Montpelier,
139; secy. and aid de camp to Jackson:
39, 105, agt. to Callava, 78, confid.
agt. at Pensacola, 140, joins Jackson,
137; sent overland to Montpelier, 39;
signer, 183, 287, 318, 481. See also
Territorial Secretary.
Call, Delegate Richard K., authd. to
certify Perpall's acct., 953; char. of
Innerarity refd. to, for comment, 873;
letters ment. to: DuVal, 908, PMG,
833, QMG, 931, Steele, 864, 867;
letters to, from: Macon, 821, PMG,
853, 900, QMG, 931–932; let. to
Pres., 859; moves resol. for land
grant for terr. capital, 853 n.; party
at house of, 872; recomas.: Blair as
sup. judge, 954 n., cands. for legis.
council, 859, estab. of post offices,
833, Hanson as U. S. marshal, 657
n.; resol. adopted in H. R. on motion
of, re compen. of White and Davidson,
781 n.; sends Steele charges against
him, 864, 867, 870, 951; submits
question to Sec. Navy re send. ship
from Key Vaca with witnesses to
murder trial, 821; votes recd. in elec.,
693 n.
Callava, Gov. José, admits Jackson's
auth. to rec. W. Fla., 93; agrees to
plan of St. Marks transfer, 71; believes
he commands until Span. troops leave,
82–83; confers with: Bronough and
Brackenridge, 73, 74, Gadsden, 77–
78; criticises Forbes and Alba for
negligence, 84–85; desires explanation
of mission of Alba to Pensacola, 89;
dispute with Jackson: action against,
255, arrest by order of Jackson, 185,
239, arrest discussed, 184–189, charged
with breach of faith, 149–150, criti-
cized by Jackson, 158, discussed, 158–
160, forbidden return to Fla., 230,
habeas corpus for release discussed,
185–189, hist. sources re, 184 n.,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1006 I N DE X
query re legality of actions against,
242, 243, topic of discussion in Pen-
sacola, 282; expresses wish to enter
agreement with Jackson, 83; fixes
time for transfer of Pensacola, 145;
illness of, 159; informed re deposit of
provisions at Pensacola for U.S.
troops, 138; Jackson proposes per-
sonal conf. with, 78; letters ment. to:
Forbes, 93, Gadsden, 77, 144, Jackson,
74, 89,90, 137, 138, 141, 143, 144, 145,
146,147, Vives, 145; lettersto: Gadsden,
82–83, Jackson, 74–77, 85–85; letters
to, from: Gadsden, 77–78, Jackson,
73–74, 90; no longer in Pensacola,
306; order ment. for transfer of Bar-
rancas, 108; piracy cases tried before,
292; protests ment., 343; query to
Jackson re receipt in St. Augustine of
order for its surrender, 85; rights as
Span. commandant violated, 261;
solicits passage for Alba to St. Augus-
tine, 146; Spanish archives: appts.
commrs. to act with U. S. commrs. in
exam., 147, forced to transfer, 243,
ment. re transfer to U. S., 338, refuses
to deliver, 276–277, statement ment.
re seizure, 260; to reach Jackson thru
Call, 78; transfer of W. Fla.: approves
plan to remove Span. troops, 138,
arts. of agree. with Jackson re, 122–
124, authd. by govr. genl. of Cuba to
act in, 74, corr. with Jackson re, 137,
138, 139, 141, 142, 143, 144–145, 146,
147, 148, 149, fixes date for, 147,
negots. begin re, 74, negots. with
Jackson re, 144–146, to fix date to
move Span. troops, 122; view re ord-
nance: accepts Jackson's views, 98,
claims right to remove, 159, disputes
U. S. right to, 75–77, 145–146, op-
poses surrender of, 142, refuses to
sign inventories, 148–149, 160; waives
exhib. of Jackson's comm., 137, 144.
Caller, Robert, Jr., signer, 322.
Camacho, José, signer, 309, 314.
Camak, J. of Ga., recomds. Steele for
appt. as U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.),
414 n.
Cambridge, William E., signer, 321.
Campbell, Charles, signer, 292.
Campbell, Duncan H., grand juror, 933.
Campbell, D. G., recomas. Long as
survi. pub. lands, 943 n.
Campbell, Edward, signer, 292.
Campbell, John, petit juror, 613 n.,
614 n.; signer, 289.
Campbell, Rep. John, of Ohio, recomds.
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Campbell v. Hall, cited, 7 n.
Camp Hope, fourth infantry encamped
at, 538.
Camp Manuels (Manuals), U. S. troops
arrive at, for occup. of Pensacola, 92;
U. S. troops at, 143. See also Gon-
zales, Manuel.
Camp Montgomery, loc. of, 12 n.
Camp Pinckney (Ga.), near Coleraine,
366.
Cannaulieo, R. S., signer, 290.
Cannon (ordnance), Butler ordered to
resist Span. claims to, 33; dispute re
cession of, 30–31; instrs. re U. S.
claims to, 23–24. See also Ordnance.
Cantonment Brooke, add. hospital stores
and surgeons recomil. for, 842—843;
char. of land near, 842; Clark visits,
enroute to Cape Sable, 944; construc-
tion of: discussed, 918, materials not
recd., 927, progress, 930–931, 944;
estab. and loc. of, 842, 845; Gadsden
writes from, 968; troops in good
cond., 918.
Cantonment Clinch, alleged cut. of
timber on private land near, 931;
DuVal issues requis. on officer at, for
troops for St. Marks, 928; flag raised
on, 702; name given to hdqrs. near
Pensacola, 722; oxen sent to, 914;
perm. hdqrs. fourth inf., 784.
Cantonment Hillsborough, temp. name
of Cant. Brooke, 845.
Cantonment Montpelier, Jackson to
await arrival of Forbes at, 12, 19; loc.
of, 12 n.
Canovis, Antonio, petit juror, 963 n.
Canovis, Martin, petit juror, 963 n.
Canuet, W., signer, 858.
Cap de Bo, José, signer, 309, 314.
Cape Canaveral, light house recomd. at,
388.
Cape Florida, 34, 104; alleged sale to
Murray, 462; bounds revenue dist.,
55; distance to: Key West, 685, Old
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X
1007
Mattacombe Island, 684, Taverniere,
685; English wreckers operate betw.,
and Dry Tortugas, 382; fug. slaves
escape to, 763; good land reptă. near,
381–382; Indian settle. on w. side of,
464; lighthouse: authd. for, 651 n.,
recomd. at, 388, 411; memorial re
wrecked goods saved to east of, 812–
813; milit. post recoma. for, 750;
proposed rd. from, 907; rel. to Key
West, 352, 362, 412; rd. to St. Lucie
r. impract., 941–942; sale of, ment.,
462.
Cape Henry (Va.), Commodore Porter
sails from, 686.
Cape Sable, 375; description of island
s. w. of, 382; fishing boats operate off,
382; proposed rd. from, 907; rq. to be
survd. to St. Augustine-Pensacola
rd., 924–925; survey of rq. route to
St. Marys, Ga., to begin, 944.
Cape Vincent (N. Y.), custom house at,
831.
Capo, Antonio, signer, facing 702.
Capo, Peter, signer, 816.
Capo, Peter, signer, 819.
Captain General of Cuba, requires
Indian consent for land grants, 271.
Carderol, Jose, signer, 816. See also
Landerol.
Cardona, Innocencio (Inocencio; Yno-
cencio), signer, 371, 814, 816, 819.
Carendene, James, signer, 287.
Careysfort (Carrysford) Reef, lighthouse
authd. for, 651 m.; no. of Brit. vessels
near, 684.
Carling, Patrick, witness, 614 n.
Carmen, a schooner, crew held
Pensacola for piracy, 447–448.
Caro, Ambrose (Ambrosio) A., petit
juror, 612, 613 n., 61.4 n.; signer, 310,
314; witness, 614 n.
Caro, Benito F., petit juror, 613 n.
Caro, Joseph E., plea for Villiers'
brothers sworn to before, 891;
recomas. Davison as marshal, 591 m.;
signer, 288, 309, 314.
Caro, Sebastian, appd. justice of peace
and quorum, Pensacola, 132; declines
office, 132 n.; petit juror, 610, 613 n.,
614 m.; signer, 289, 309, 314, 625.
Carow, -, in rel. to Myers case, 893.
in
Carpenter, Manning, signer, 289.
Carpenter, Samuel A., signer, 321.
Carr, James, petit juror, 613 n.
Carrea (?), Antoine, witness, 614 n.
Carrera, Millan (William) de la, affid.
sworn before notary public, 324; names
of slaves of, 324; petition for law to
permit removal of slaves from Havana
to Pensacola, 324; signer, 309, 314.
Carrillo, Manuel, signer, 288, 309, 314.
Carroll, William, recomd. as govr., 10 n.
Carter, H., father of John M., 179.
Carter, John M., attempts seizure of
slaves, 179; held on trial before
criminal ct., 179.
Case, Walter, of N. Y., solicits post of
coll. of customs, Pensacola, 52 n.
Cashen, James, signer, 450.
Casheu, James, signer, 449.
Caskawilla Lake, Indian settle. s. of,
464.
Cass, Gov. Lewis, of Mich. Terr., ment.,
732; recomds. Doty as terr. secy., 44
n.; salary as Indian supt., 689.
Cassin, C., signer, 323.
Cassin, Capt. John, to send gunboat to
join the Spark, 378.
Castillo de San Marcos, fortress at St.
Augustine, 49 m.; name changed to
Ft. Marion, 63 n.
Castro y Ferrer, Bartolomé de, recomd.
as member leg. council, 423 m.; signed
for by Cavedo, 858; signer, 372, 761.
Castro y Ferrer, Domingo, signer, 761.
Catholic Cemetery (St. Augustine),
viewed as private property, 204.
Catholic Church (St. Augustine), viewed
as private property, 204.
Catlett, Dr. Hanson, papers in case of,
ment., 783.
Catron, John, of Tenn., recomas. Hayes
as judge, 43 n.
Cattle, cost of, 747.
Cavedo (Cafeda; Cavada; Cavado;
Caveda), John (Juan) A., 962; acct.
for service as clk. of elec., 715; check
sent to Reynolds for pay to, 786 m.;
clk. to archs. commrs.: acct. awaits
decision of Pres., 785–786, pay as,
657 n., petit juror, 962; signer, 448,
450, 530, 704, 764, 986; signs for B.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1008 I N DE X
de Castro y Ferrer, 858. See also
Reynolds, William.
Caweta Indians, reside in O-ke-fe-no-ke
swamp, 464.
Cayo Huesso, see Key West.
Cazenave, Jean Baptiste, signer, 289,
310, 315.
Cedar timber, depreds. on, discussed,
583–584; destined for Brit., 376;
illegal cutting of, 375–376, 809;
scarcity of, 376; shipped from Pensa-
cola, 791; ships at Pensacola laden
with, 701; taken on brig in St. Johns
r., 384.
Cedar Creek, Nine Mile Point near,
384; petit jurors from, 823.
Cedar Point, grand jurors from, 822.
Centeno, Baltazar, signer, 310, 314.
Centilla, armed schooner, escapes cap-
ture, 719.
Centinella, an armed brig, capture of, as
pirate ship, 292.
Cercopoly, Domingo, signer, facing 702,
704, 858.
Cercopoly, John (Juan), signer, 816,819.
See also Secopoly.
Chadburn, F., signer, 323.
Chaires (Chairs), Benjamin, recs. con-
tract to supply Seminole rations, 940
n.; recomd. for legis. council, 423 n.,
616; signer, 566, 986.
Chamberlain, Maj. Reuben, of Ala.,
solicits post of coll. of customs at
Pensacola, 52 n.
Champlin (Champlain), Whitfield, petit
juror, 610, 613 n., 614 n.; signer, 288,
323; testimony in Gerrish assault
case, 885; witness, 61.4 n., 889.
Chaplin, John H., signer, 183, 318, 323,
481; solicits appt. as U. S. dist. atty.
(E. Fla.), 414 n.
Chapman, Foster S., witness, 614 n.
Chapman, –, witness to riot, 885.
Charity Society (St. Augustine), urged
to procure quarters, 217.
Charleston (S. C.), DuVal seeks ship
bound for, 649; DuVal to advert. in,
for Indian rations, 939; Elton to
proceed to, to procure funds, 408;
Gadsden visits, 754; letters from St.
Augustine go to p. o. at, 511; ment.,
646,792; naval base, 378; Pelham to sail
to, 497; St. Augustine notes held by
firm in, 735; Strong sells Key West to
Geddes at, 462; to supply boats to
remove Span. from E. Fla., 15; U. S.
troops: recoma. to reinforce St. Augus-
tine, 902, sent to, 22, 46 n.; Worthing-
ton sails from, for St. Augustine, 169,
180.
Charlotte Harbor, all land public in vic.
of, 834; area 8. of: proposed for
Indians, 652, unknown, 748; base of
explor. by Gadsden, 842; fug. slaves
go to Bahama Islands, 745; Gadsden
writes from, 922; ment. re Indian
reserv. bound., 660; milit. post recomd.
for, 750; rd. from Cape Sable to
touch, 925; ship lands alleged wood
cutters at, 834; Span. fishermen and
Indians at, 835 n.; visit of naval
vessels urged, 796, 802, 817.
Charlotte River, ment. re Indian reserv.
bound., 660; Pine Island in mouth of,
744.
Chattahoochee (Chatta-houchy), an In-
dian town, Indian town w. of, 464;
Upper Creeks from, 463.
Chattahoochee River, Ft. Mitchell on,
698.
Chazotte, Peter S., discovers good land
near Cape Florida, 381–382; employed
by Amer. Coffee Land Assoc., 192 n.;
let, re Seminole condition sent to Sec.
War, 219 n.; recs. passport to visit E.
Fla., 192 n.; reports: English wreckers
on south coast, 192 n., rels. between
Indians and Nassau, 192 n.
Checaco, Manuell, signer, 477.
Chef Menteur River, in La., ment., 839.
Chehaw Indians, resid. Black Creek,
464.
Cherokee Indians, move to w. of Miss.
r., 712; rels. with, 690.
Chew, Beverly, coll. customs, New
Orleans, 741; believes enforce. of
slave law imperative, 741; cannot
supply Jackson with funds, 37; let.
to Scott, 741.
Chief Engineer, Macomb, assigns job of
mark. route of St. Augustine-Pensa-
cola rd., 729; letters to: Bernard and
Totten, 808, Le Conte, 729, Sec. War,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X 1009
Eustis, 215, Worthington, 246; letters
to, from Worthington, 190–192, 223,
331–332; members: comms. signed by
Jackson, 266, threaten to resign, 246,
under Span., decline new appt., 193;
memorial ment. re pub. blags., 604;
memorial to Cong. for add. revenue
and donations of pub. blags. and pub.
land, 332–333; occup. of council
chamber recoma., 331; orders hospital
moved, 246; proposed sale of pub.
property declared illegal, 279; reports:
ment., 249, re condition of pub.
blågs., 196, re St. Augustine property,
200–205; resolutions: against giving
quarters to troops, 218, discussed re
removal of hospital, 228, ment., 249,
ment. re resig. of members, 227,
requesting use of Ft. St. Marks as city
prison, 511, re use of Ft. St. Marks to
be laid before Pres., 511. See also
St. Augustine.
City Wardens (St. Augustine), appt. of,
120.
Civil power, dispute with military repub.
blågs. (E. Fla.): discussed or ment.,
181–182, 190–191, 195–196, 197, 215–
218, 222, 223, 224, 227–228, 229, 241,
245–246, 247–249, 303, 585–589, 604,
645, 731–732, ended, 272-274; dispute
with military re pub. blags. (W. Fla.):
discussed, 600–601, division of blags.,
493; pub. blags. assigned to, 285–286;
rel. to milit., under temp. govt. Fla.,
402–403. See also Military power.
Claiborne (Ala.), p. m. at: appt. of, 916
n., warned re injury to mail bags, 916;
post route to Pensacola: cost of, 290,
discussed, 856, estabd., 198; roads to:
Ft. Mitchell, 856, St. Stephens, 765,
Taitsville, 765, Tuscaloosa, 766.
Claiborne, Thomas, of Tenn., recomds.
Hayes as judge, 43 n.
Claims, by American citizens against
Spain, 8 n.
Clapp, Roland (Rowland), grand juror,
613 n.; petit juror, 610; signer, 289,
310, 314, 322.
Clark, Archibald, coll. customs, St.
Marys, Ga., 436; let. ment. to Sec.
Treas., 29; let. to Sec. Treas., 24; lets.
to, from Sec. Treas., 29–30, 436–437;
839–840; rept. re defenses of Pensa-
cola, 839–840.
Chificknico Hadjo, chief of Ocilla
Indians, meets Wright at St. Marks,
578.
Chile (S. A.), Worthington special agt.
to, 56.
Cho-co-nick-la (Chockenickla), Indian
town, 464, 673; joins Top-hul-ga in
E. Fla., 464.
Choctawhatchee (Chocktawhache;
Choctahatchy; Choctawatchie; Choc-
taw Hatche; Choctaw Hatchie; St.
Rosa Bay) River, 720; distance to:
Pensacola via Ft. Crawford, 608, St.
Augustine, 609; extent of illegal tim-
ber cutting on, 848; ferry on, 736;
provisions for troops opening rq. to be
deposited at, 609; w. bound. of good
land, 233.
Choctaw (Chactaw) Indians, move to
w. of Miss. r., 712; reside on w. side
Cape Florida, 464.
Choctaw Indian Treaty, accts. dis-
cussed, 40.
Christie, Elijah, signer, 478.
Christofer, a slave, 324.
Christophe, Louis, signer, 310, 315.
Christopher, Joh, signer, 566.
Christopher, Lewis (Louis), petit juror,
823; signer, 290, 566.
Chu-ka-chatta (Checuchatte; Checu-
chatty: Chichuchaty), Indian town,
hummocks at, 969; Indian towns:
s. e. of, 464, w. of, 464; rel. to Semi-
nole reserve bound., 905, 906.
City Council (Pensacola), blockhouse
ordered for use of, 683; members
recomd. Brackenridge as judge, 317,
318; memorial by, for grant of pub.
blågs. to city, 318–320; query by, re
ownership of ground in front of city,
319. See also Pensacola.
City Council (St. Augustine), dispute
with milit. for use of pub. bligs., 215,
218, 227, 604; entitled to pub. blag.
if available, 304; erection pub. blogs.
authd. by, 245; finances: compelled to
borrow funds, 617, debt (1821) to be
paid by U. S., 635, estimate of needs
sent to Sec. State, 332, tax coll.
suspended, 432; letters ment. to:
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988
801867–57–65



1010
I N DE X
repts. Brit. and Fr. ships landing
cargoes in St. Johns r-, 24.
Clark, Edward, of Pa., solicits post of
coll. of customs at Pensacola, 52 n.
Clark, Capt. Isaac, accepts assig. to
survey Cape Sable-St. Marys rd.,
844; appd. asst. q. m., Tampa Bay,
834–835, 930 n.; employs clk., 944;
instrs. to, re mark. rd. from Cape
Sable, 925; let. to QMG, 944; let. to,
from QMG, 924–925; ordered to sur-
vey rd. from Cape Sable to St.
Augustine-Pensacola ră., 924–925;
requests auth. to employ perman.
clk., 944; sails from Pensacola to
Cant. Brooke, 944.
Clark, Oliver, appd. harbour master,
Pensacola, 131; signer, 289, 323.
Clark, Gov. William, of Mo. Terr.,
Indian supt.: salary, 689, special
status, 689, 691; ment., 732.
Clarke, Charles W., petit juror, 800,
963.
Clarke, George J. F., 88; copyist for
Coppinger, 106; note re, 219; signer,
566, 986.
Clarke (Clark), Gov. John, of Ga.,
recomas. Watson as marshal, 46 n.;
relation of Mrs. Fitch, 272; to deliver
fugitive from E. Fla., 432.
Clay, Rep. Henry, of Ky., does not
recomd. Luckett as land commr., 849
n.; friend of Jesup, 298; recomás.:
Carroll as govr., 10 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n.
Clear Point, grand juror from, 934.
Cleary, Nathaniel Greene, of S. C.,
solicits appt. as Indian agt., 430 n.
Clerk of courts, East Florida, lacks
office space, 191.
Clerk of the city court, Pensacola, appt.
of, 132.
Cliarquebier, Diego, signer, 762.
Cliarquebier, Fedoro, signer, 762.
Climguebie, Feodoro, signer, 858.
Clinch, Lt. Col. Duncan L., corresp.
with Walton ment. re use of pub.
blågs., 562; letters ment. to: Adjt.
Genl., 538, Sec. War, 556, 562;
letters to: Adjt. Genl., 538–539, Pres.,
473–474, Walton, 551; letters to, from:
Sec. War, 488–489, Walton, 550;
offers services in rd. construc., 502;
opposes soldiers voting for deleg. to
Cong., 473–474; pub. blags. assigned to
civil authority: delivered to customs
officers, 600, delivered to mayor,
Pensacola, 600, orders to confer with
DuVal re, 489, Sec. War instrs. re,
interpreted, 551, to city council, 551,
transfer ordered, 493, 510, used as
store houses, 601; recomás.: King as
govr., 469 n., Shomo as marshal, 591
n.; suggestions re quarters, 538; to
eject agt. of claimant to hospital, 601;
to prepare expedition to Tampa, 784;
transfers comd. to Brooke, 702 n.
Cobb, Athal S., signer, 323.
Cobb, Benjan, signer, 323.
Cobb, Daniel, signer, 323.
Cobb, Ezekiel, signer, 323.
Cobb, E. E., signer, 322.
Cobb, Isaiah, signer, 323.
Cobb, Jones, signer, 292, 323.
Cobb, Joseph, signer, 321.
Cobb, Stephen, signer, 323.
Cobb, Rep. Thomas W., of Ga.,
recomás.: Flournoy as govr., 10 n.,
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Cobb, W. W., signer, 323.
Cochran, Indian chief, reserv. for, in
Middle Dist., 970.
Cochrane, John D., signer, 322.
Coe, Levoritt H., petit juror, 961;
signer, 858.
Coffee, John, of Ala., recomds. Martin
as marshal, 46 n.
Coffee, Joshua A., agt. for James
estate, 764, 858; signer, 858.
Colburn, Thomas, signer, 288, 321.
Cold Water Bay, to be avoided in
cross. to Pensacola, 736.
Cole, James, petit juror, 613 n.; witness,
614 n.
Cole, Mason, signer, 322.
Colein, Francisco, petit juror, 613 m.;
signer, 289.
Coleman, Rev. —, ment. re Callava-
Jackson affair, 185.
Coleraine (Colerain), Ga., on St.
Augustine-Jefferson, Ga., post rd.,
487; post route to St. Augustine:
authd., 367 n., estab. urged, 366; road
to Cowford to be opened, 633.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1011
Coley, Right, signer, 292.
Collector of Customs, Key West, appt.
of, 615 n. (see also Yancey, Joel);
Pensacola: absence of, 479, applied to,
to stop vessels laden with timber,
701, appt. of, 56, block house assigned
to, 551, declines to stop timber
vessels, 701, let. to Sec. Treas., 282–
284, paid no salary, 551, recomd. for
appt. as, 3 n., 4 n., 17, recomds. Hall
to comma. revenue cutter, 283,
recomds. one custom official, 284,
recomds. U. S. vessel to stop wreckers,
282, refuses to care for ill sailors, 507,
urged to stop illegal shipping, 791
(see also Scott, Alexander); St.
Augustine: appt. of, 121, 169, entitled
to publd. laws, 486, ment., 195 (see
also Rodman, John).
Collin (Collins), Antonio (Antoine),
petit juror, 613 m.; paid rent by
Walton for use of house, 481; riot at
ball in house of, 885, 887; signer, 309,
314; Span. cits. meet in home of, 311.
Collin, Arthur, signer, 288, 321.
Colpoy, John, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Colombia (S. A.), cruisers from, wreck
Span. vessels, 706.
Commander-in-Chief, revival of office in
army, 21 n.
Commanding General, Brown, lets. to,
from Brooke, 844–846, 918–919; order
by, for estab. milit. post at Tampa
Bay, 784–785.
Commercial Hotel, Pensacola, talk in,
re Brackenridge et al., 976.
Communigs F., petit juror, 613 n.;
witness, 614 n.
Commissioners of Claims, appt. of, 56.
Commissions, as act. govr. W. Fla. sent
to Walton, 230; as U. S. Atty. sent
to Bird, 100–101; blank: delivered to
Worthington, 178, sent to St. Augus-
tine, 157, sent to secy., E. Fla. for
completion, 134; members legis. coun-
cil: copies sent to Law, 422 n., sent to
Duval, 422 n.; texts as: commr. to
occupy Fla., 8–9, govr., 9–11, 469–
470, govr. (act.), E. Fla., 104–105,
govr. (special), 18–19, Indian agt.,
222–223, 429–430, Indian subagt.,
264, judge (E. Fla. dist.), 42–43, 416–
4.17, 955–956, judge (Middle Fla.
dist.), 953–954, judge (W. Fla. dist.),
451, 954–955, justice (Escambia Co.
ct.), 662, land commrs., 428–429,
land commrs. (E. Fla. land dist.),
656, 805–806, 958, land commrs. (W.
Fla. land dist.), 711–712, 808–809,
849–850, mayor (Pensacola), 226–227,
members legis. council, 422–423, 640–
641, 913, secy. (W. Fla.), 43–45, survn.
pub. lands, 942–943, terr. secy., 413,
U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 49–50, 413–
414, 680, 806, U. S. atty. (Middle
Fla. dist.), 956–957, U. S. atty. (W.
Fla. dist.), 589–590, U. S. marshal,
45–46, U. S. marshal (E. Fla. dist.),
639–640, U. S. marshal (Middle Fla.
dist.), 957, U. S. marshal (W. Fla.
dist.), 590–591; to Jackson: discussed,
91, left with Walton for inform. re
duties, 230.
Common law, permits writs of habeas
corpus, 186.
Commyns, Francisco, signer, 310, 315.
Commyns, Thomas (Tomas), signer,
310, 315.
Compton, Richard, appd. and comma.
to legis. council, 913; appt. criticised,
833; recomma. for legis. council, 859.
Compton, William, grand juror, 896.
Comptroller of the Treasury, refers
Rodman to Sec. State for certain
inform., 300. See also Anderson,
Joseph.
Condy, Thomas D., of S. C., recomds.
Dove as marshal, 640 n.
Conecuh River (Ala.), on proposed
Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell rd., 856.
Connecticut (State), Cobb native of,
358; Farnham native of, 361; J. Smith
appd. judge from, 416, 554.
Connor, John Coppinger (Copinger),
add. compens. as clk. exec. ct. re-
quested, 499; amt. pay recd. as clk.
exec. ct., 499; death of, 535; signer,
289; solicits appt. as survr. customs,
499.
Contracts, advert. for postal, 487; laws
impair. oblig. of, prohibd., 398. See
also Mail Contracts.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1012
I N DE X
Convent (St. Augustine), recomd. for a
college, 204.
Conway, Del. Henry, of Ark. Terr.,
recomas. Luckett as land commr., 849
Il.
Conway, William D., surgeon's mate,
leaves for Norfolk with sick seamen,
776.
Cook, Rep. Daniel P., of Ill., recomas:
Blair as judge, 954 n., DuVal as
govr., 372 n., Hubbard as judge,
43 n.
Cook, Samuel, accts. refd. to Treas. and
War depts., 805; let. ment. to Maury,
805; letters to, from: Maury, 805, Sec.
War, 820–821; petit juror, 961;
signer, facing 702, 762, 764, 858.
Coopper, Henry H., signer, 322.
Coosa, a Seminole Chief, visits Cop-
pinger, 212.
Coosa River, followers of McQueen and
Francis from, 463.
Copp, Belton A., recomd. as U. S.
Atty., 678, 806 n.
Copp, Daniel, act. p. m. St. Augustine,
notice by, 127; alderman, St. Augus-
tine, 358; apptd. alderman, 194 n.;
death of, 358; nativity, 358; on comm.
to draft city council (St. Augustine)
resol., 218; pd. for services to St.
Augustine, 818 n.; signer, 349.
Coppinger, Gov. Jose, abuse of, 419;
agreement with Butler re archs. trans-
fer: discussed, 335–336, ment., 327;
alleged diplom. char., 340; appd. to
transfer E. Fla. to U. S., 111; archs.
seized from, 272, 302, 346, 574, 657,
826; asserts order of Span. govt. pre-
vents surrender of archs., 338, 344;
attitude re ordnance: accepts com-
promise, 80 n., believes Span. right to,
72–73, denies U. S. right to, 113,
proposes compromise, 73 n.; awaits
instrs. from Mahy re release of
archives to U. S., 86; cooperation in
plan of evacua. St. Augustine, 86 n.,
87–88; corresp. re archs. publd. in
newspapers by, 302; corresp. with
Butler: re transfer of St. Augustine
and E. Fla., 59, 61–63, 66–69, 86–88,
102–103, 105–106, 107, sent to Jack-
son, 165; delays setting day for ex-
change of flags, 102; discussed prob-
lems re transfer of E. Fla., 67–68;
disputes Butler's claims to certain
records, 106; dispute with Worthing-
ton, 247; fails to deliver up St.
Augustine records, 205; friend of
Geddes, 383; holds back docs. reland
titles, 165; informed of classes of
archives proposed to be left in St.
Augustine, 105–106; instrs. to, re
transfer of St. Augustine: not recd., 48,
59 n., 60, query re, 59, recd., 81;
land grants by: alleged illegal, 337,
ment., 580, need of papers re, alleged,
337; leaves St. Augustine, 247;
letters ment. to: Bell, 179, Butler, 72,
79, 80, 86, 87, 102, 338, Mahy, 86,
Ramage, 60; letters to Butler, 63–64,
66–69, 80 m., 87–88, 106, 107; letters
to, from Butler, 59, 61–64, 72–73,
79–80, 86–87, 102–103, 105–106; let-
ters to Worthington sent to Sec.
State, 418, 419; mal-admin. alleged,
438; official explan. re pub. property
sent to Worthington, 177; ordered to
transf. archs. to U. S., 340; permitted
archs. to be culled and removed to
Havana, 336, 339; plan to entrust
docs. to Cross for delivery to Span.
minister cancelled, 116; powers of:
continued by Bell and Worthington,
181, devolve on U. S. commander,
215, transfö. to Bell, 124, 125, 345;
prepares to carry archs. to Cuba,
338; protests ment., 343; query re
disposal of papers to be returned to,
334; recs. Butler's comm., 66; refuses
returned papers, 420; rels. with
Worthington, 240; remains in St.
Augustine: after U. S. occup., 193, as
private person, 341, as Span. commr.,
125; removal of Span. troops to
Havana: convoy requested, 107, ob-
served, 118, rations requested, 88,
rept. to Butler re loading of trans-
ports, 107; requests Butler's comm.
as proof of auth. to receive E. Fla.,
64; requests Worthington to arrest
Ugarte, 302 n.; sets date for exchange
of flags, 103 m.; signs transfer of E.
Fla., 112; to appt. agt. to deliver
archives to Cross, 85; to send docs. re
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1013
Cowan, D. G., signer, 901.
Cowan, Robert, deceased, 384; sold
cedar trees to A. Smith, 384.
Coweta (Ga.), unfitness of p. m.
alleged, 579.
Coweta (Cawetus; Kawitas) Indians,
depreds. repa., 126; hostile activities
at Tampa, 119; Seminoles fear trouble
with, 119.
Cowford, incident at elect. in, 544, 545,
546; on post routes: St. Augustine-
Jefferson, Ga., 487, St. Augustine-St.
Marys r., 655; rd. to St. Augustine in
oper., 633; site of Jacksonville, 366 n.
Cowford Road, petit juror from, 961.
Cowper's Reports, ment., 268.
Cox, Abner, signer, 322.
Cox, Isaac N., nomin. as member legis.
council vetoed by Senate, 640 n.; not
appd. judge, 986 n.; recoma. as: judge,
985–986, member legis. council, 913
n.; solicits appt. as U. S. Atty., 806
n., 956 n.
Coys Creek, petit jurors from, 823.
Cozzens, Benjamin, signer, 477.
Co (MS. torn), P., signer, 761.
Crabb, James, signer, 292.
Craig, Elijah, of Ky., recomds. Brad-
ford as land commr., 718 n.
Craig, James C., appd. town constable,
Pensacola, 131.
Craig, Thomas, signer, 367, 371.
Craig, —, unlicensed trader,
McHardy's plant., 495.
Crane, Ambrose, grand juror, 896.
Crawford, a revenue cutter, in command
of Lt. Taylor, 451.
Crawford, see Cowford.
Crawford, Edward, signer, 288.
Crawford, Edward, Jr., signer, 321.
Crawford, Rep. Joel, of Ga., recomas.:
Steele as U. S. atty., 590 n., Troup as
govr., 10 n.
Crawford, William, recomds. King as
govr., 469 n.
Crawford, William H., Jesup friend of,
298. See also Secretary of the
Treasury
Creek Indians, in Fla., 58, 226; Fla.
Indians part of, 232; hostile to
Seminoles, 219 n., invade Fla., 220;
no action planned for removal to
on
transf. E. Fla. by private convey. to
Span. minister, 116; transfs. archs. to
U. S., 722, 735, 755–756, 757, 758,
759; unofficial opinion that archs.
should be delivered to U. S., 344;
views asked re property surrendered,
62; visited by Seminole chiefs, 212.
Cora, a transport, wrecked enroute to
Pensacola, 114, 147.
Cordona, Yucur, takes naturaliz. oath,
435.
Coroner (St. Johns Co.), unable to give
bond, 540.
Coth-rin (Cothran), Indian chief, 464.
See also Tus-ki-har-jo.
Cotter, James P., signer, 986.
Cotton, future growth in Fla. pre-
dicted, 581.
Cotton, Daniel, signer, 288, 322.
Cotton, Loften, signer, 322.
Cotton, R. L., signer, 322.
Coulons, Lepine, indicted by grand jury
for assault, 887–888.
Coulons, Lepine, and Raoul, indictment
for assault: discussed, 910, evidence
in, 884–891, ment., 870, quashed,
873. See also Florida Territory v.
Coulons and Grand-Pre; Williers,
Manuel de, and Luis de.
Coulons, Raoul, see Coulons, Lepine,
and Raoul.
Council Chamber (St. Augustine),
turned back for civilian use, 285, 331.
Counties, DuVal to regul. police of, 751;
ordin. estab., delivered to Worthing-
ton, 133, 178.
County attorney, compens. ment., 494.
County clerks, appt. of, 662–663; paid
by fees, 357.
County courts, continue under Jack-
son's ordin. until superceded under
terr.govt. act. 646; estab. in W. Fla.,
151; excluded from quarters by
troops at St. Augustine, 227; Jack-
son's ordin. re: discussed, 437 n., sent
to Worthington, 134, 178.
Court house and jail (Pensacola), cost
of repair. pub. blóg. for use of, 770;
need of, 676–677.
Court of Appeals, estabd., 524 n.
Cowan, David, appd. port warden,
Pensacola, 131; note re, 131.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1014
I N DE X
Ga., 40–41; problem of numbers and
views, 41; query re status in Fla.,
29; Seminoles leave nation of, 207;
Seminoles refuse to join, 294; settle
in Fla., 29; union with Seminoles:
discussed, 533–534, fails, 508, recoma.,
206, urged, 328; violence in Fla. to
be suppressed, 602.
Crittenden, Sen. John J., of Ky.,
recomds. Shannon for appt., 132 n.
Cromer, Eusebio Maria, signer, 858.
Crosby (Cosby), Abraham (Abram),
petit juror, 611, 613 n.; signer, 287.
Crosby, Thomas, grand juror, 963 n.;
signer, 986.
Crosby, Rev. Michael, appd. member
bd. of health, St. Augustine, 121;
claim against estate of, discussed,
709; death of, 458; interference with,
by Hamilton, 702 (facing); signer,
367.
Cross, Maj. Trueman, act. Quarter-
master General, apptd. to receive
archives of E. Fla., 79, 85, 86; com-
ments by, re: pub. blags. in Pensacola,
472–473, pub. blags. in St. Augustine,
ment., 224, right of civil officials to
quarters, 182; letters ment. to QMG,
80, 81; letters to, from: Butler, 85,
QMG, 22–23, 30; let. to QMG, 81;
ordered to: Amelia Island, 20, Fernan-
dina to arrange occup. of St. Augus-
tine, 22, Washington when mission is
complete, 30; plan to carry docs.
from Coppinger to Span. minister
cancelled, 116; prelim. visit to St.
Augustine: discussed, 47, return to
Fernandina from, 48, 49, proposed,
30; recomás.: office space only for
civil officials, 182, repairs to fort at
St. Augustine, 127; reports: arrival of
Span. agt. with instrs. to surrender
St. Augustine, 80, 81, Span. govr. has
no instrs. re transfer of St. Augustine,
48; sails from St. Augustine for
Washington, 125; to ack. docs. of
transfer, 113; to carry corresp. re
occup. E. Fla. to Sec. State, 115, 116.
See also Quartermaster General (act.).
Cross Swamp, petit jurors from, 823.
Crosthwaite, H., signer, 530.
Crowder, Capt. William B., murdered
by Bowles and others, 503.
Crowell, John, Creek agt., let. ment. to
Walton, 347; supplies: list of slaves
taken from Creeks, 221 n., names of
persons to whom slaves were delivered
in Ga., 221.
Crumbly, William, signer, 322.
Crupper, Micajah, emplyd. to act for
Burch as q. m., Pensacola, 772;
ment., 928; suit against, by U. S.,
65 n.
Cruzot (Crusat), Jose y., secy. to
Callava, let. ment. to Stanton, 149;
repts. Callava's illness, 148, 159.
Cuba, agt. in, to import slaves, 38;
Capt. Geml.: auths. surrender of W.
Fla., 74, delays orders re transfer of
Fla. posts, 60, directed to dispose of
land in E. Fla., 827, does not deliver
archs. to U. S., 338, let. ment. to,
from Porter, 705, orders to move
Span. troops to come from, 58–59,
Porter tries to remove suspicions of,
706; fishermen from, trade with
Seminoles, 696; heavy expenses in
parts of, 352; ment., 10, 12, 13, 226,
253, 324, 686, 776; pirates anchor s.
of, 259; rel. to Key West (Thompson's
Island), 353, 387, 411, 412; ships
from: pass Fla. keys, 388, query re
duties on, at Key West, 920; Span.
inhabs. of E. Fla.: remove to, 295,
return to, 329; Span. troops to be
moved to, 55.
Culbreth, Rep. Thomas, of Md.,
recomils. Worthington for office, 35 n.
Culpepper, Rep. John, of N.C., recomds.
Branch as govr., 10 n.
Cumming, J. B., signer, 321.
Cummings, Col. Alexander, fails of
elec. to legis., 259.
Currin, Robert P., of Tenn., solicits post
of coll. of customs at Pensacola, 52 n.
Curtis, Richard D., petit juror, 963 n.
Cushman, Rep. Joshua, of Mass.,
recomas. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Customs districts, act discussed re
estab. in Fla., 436; estab. of, 50–51.
Customs duties, nonpayment at St.
Augustine, 24; rate under Spain, 621.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1015
Customs houses, Key West: blóg. rented
for, 921, no fees collected, 707;
Pensacola: block house assigned for,
683, 985, no pub. blig. known as,
600, Scott appd. coll. at, 840, seized
by milit. and returned, 698, vessels
with timber cleared for N. Y. and
Phila., 701; St. Augustine: archs.
stored in, 574, assigned to civil
author., 286, assigned to Rodman,
306, descrip. of, 203, house near,
required by Rodman, 245.
Customs officials, possess office space,
191. See also Collectors of Customs.
Cuthbert, J. A., of Ga., recomas.
Rembert for appt. as U. S. Atty.
(E. Fla. Dist.), 414 n.
Cutts, Charles, secy. Senate, certifies
act, 428.
Cygnet, The, held for engag. in slave
trade, 980.
Cypert, Francis, signer, 323.
Dallas (Dalles), Alexander J., act. Sec.
War, offers comm. to Hanham, 777.
Dame, Charles, signer, 310, 323.
Danfort, Jose, signer, 310, 315.
Daniel, Abraham, signer, 814, 816.
Daniel, Enoch, Jr., signer, 478, 814, 816.
Daniel, Enoch, Sr., signer, 478, 814, 816.
Daniel, Wiley (Wily), signer, 478, 814,
816. -
Daniel, William, signer, 478, 814, 816.
Danville (Ky.), petition to Cong. from,
901.
Darien (Ga.), ment., 61, 115.
Darley, James, recomd. for legis. coun-
cil, 423 n., 616; takes naturaliz.
oath, 434.
Darling, Gamaliel (Gamiel), appd. con-
stable, St. Johns Co., 194 n., 357;
nativity, 357; petit juror, 798; signer,
367, 371,449, 858.
Daumas, James, signer, 289.
Daunoy, Luis, signer, 289.
Dauphin Island (Ala.), discussed re
completion of works on, 839.
Davidson, William, see Davison.
Davidson, Rep. William, of N. C.,
recomas. Branch as govr., 10 m.
Davis, Samuel, signer, 288.
Davis, Vinson, signer, 477.
Davis, William G., j. p. for St. Johns
Co., 359; nativity, 359; signer, 530.
Davis, –, act. lt., to aid Hutton as
inspect. of timber, 408.
Davison (Davidson), William, acct, as
sheriff to be remitted, 981; affids. of:
in favor of Steele ment., 872, re
band of negro slaves in Pensacola,
876–877, re sobriety of Steele, 894–
895; appd. U. S. marshal (W. Fla.
dist.), 781 n.; attempts arrest of
Coulons, 885; characterized, 872;
complaint of coll. customs against,
for landing slaves, 911; explains to
Steele and Scott presence of slaves
on the Thomas Shields, 876–877; let.
ment. to Browne, 981; pa. for service
as clk. of elec., 981; protected by
Steele, 911; recoma. for: legis. council,
490, U. S. marshal 591 n.; sheriff
Escambia Co., let. to, from Browne
981, solicits recomd. from Jackson,
591 n.; witness, 614 n.
Dawes, H. P., signer, 401.
Dawley, Dennis, effects of bro., J.
Dawley, sent to, 724.
Dawley, Joseph, appd. dep. coll. cus-
toms, Key West, 615 n., 715; death
of, 715, 723.
Dawson, George F. A., of Pa., solicits
appt. as dist. atty., 50 n.
Dawson, William, constable, St. Johns
Co., 358; judge of elections, 544;
nativity, 358; succeeds Darling as
constable, 358.
Dawson (Dauson), William G., petit
juror, 823, 934.
Day, Capt. James, master of the Florida,
916; partner in sale of the Florida, 927.
DeBrosse, Charles, signer, 310, 315.
Declaration of Independence, ment., 55.
Deer Point (Ala.), trail from, in direct.
of St. Augustine, 766.
De Fuentes, Ramon, signer, facing 702.
DeLacey, John D., of N. C., recomd. as
dist. atty., 50 n.
Delany, John, signer, 323.
Delany, Thomas, signer, 323.
Delazzeris, J., signer, 290.
Delazzery, I., signer, 323.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1016 I N D E X
Delespine, Joseph, petit juror, 962;
signer, 367, 585.
Delespine, –, buys Cape Florida from
Strong, 462.
Dell, (Dill), Bennett M., petit juror, 823;
signer, 477, 814, 816.
Dell (Dill), James, grand juror, 822;
signer, 477, 565, 813, 816.
Dell, Simeon (Simeson), signer, 478, 814,
816.
DeMott, Manuel, petit juror, 963 n.
Department of the Navy, instrs. to be
given naval officers to prevent illegal
cut. of timber, 669. See also Secre-
tary of the Navy.
Department of State, let. ment. to
Jackson, 259; responsible for expense
of occup. and organiz. of Fla., 33, 37;
subscribes to Fla. Gazette, 267. See
also Secretary of State.
Department of the Treasury, instrs. to
be given rev. officials to prevent il-
legal cut. of timber, 669; to station
rev. cutter in St. Johns r. to aid
enforce. of act re timber depreds.,
378. See also Secretary of the
Treasury.
Department of War, instrs. to be given
milit. officers to prevent illegal cut. of
timber, 669. See also Secretary of
War.
Deputy surveyors, compens. of, 428;
prov. for appt. of, 427–428.
Deramus, Charles J., signer, 323.
Detroit (Mich. Terr.), center of Indian
manag. in Mich. Terr., 690.
Deuer, Charles Meduke, signer, 477.
Dewees, Phillip, signer, 858.
Dexter, Horatio S., auth. to act for
Seminoles queried, 221; bond to be
taken by Eustis, 547; desires to trade
in livestock and negroes, 548; en-
closes talk with Seminoles, 170; ex-
plores peninsula of Florida, 681 n.;
grand juror, 797, 963 n.; informed re
hostile attitude of Micanope, 549;
journal kept by, 681 n.; let. re Semi-
nole condition sent to Sec. War, 219
n.; letters ment. to: Bell, 170, 221,
Eustis, 549, 577; let. to, from DuVal,
681; note re actions and corresp. of,
681; ordered to bring in runaway
slaves, 681 n.; repts. re move of
Indians, 549; resides s. of Lake
George, 212; signer, 530, 761; subagt.
Indian affairs: accepts appt., 681 n.,
appd., 681, appt. rejected, 697, as-
signed to duty with E. Fla. Indians,
681, emplyt. authd., 721, petition by,
ment. re compens. for services, 681
n.; to rec. trade license on taking oath
of alleg. and giving bond, 547, 548.
Dexter, Horatio S., and Wanton, appd.
agts. by Seminoles, 245; arrest or-
dered, 278; form settle. in Alachua
plains, 208; hold unauthord. conf.
with Seminoles, 205, 206, 209; lets.
ment. to Bell, 278; let. to Eustis,
244–245; loc. of corresp. with Bell,
244 m.; memorial for pay discussed,
244 n.; offer to prospective settlers
on Arredondo grant, 213; recomd.
Bell as Indian agt., 245; rept. on
operations relands and Indian conf.,
212–213; send Bell minutes of conf.
with Seminoles, 221 m.; talk with
Indians sent to Jackson, 205, 209;
unauthord. talk with Indians sent to
Sec. War, 278; urge early treaty with
Seminoles, 244–245. See also Wan-
ton, Edmund M.
Dias, Antonio, signer, 813, 816, 819.
Dickerson, Sen. Mahlon, of N. Y.,
recomas. Steele for appt. as U. S.
atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 414 n.
Dickinson, Joel, appd. customs inspect.,
St. Augustine, 121.
Dickson, John P., signer, 323.
Dill (Dell), —, sheriff, DuVal Co., 545.
See also Dell.
Dinkins, Maj. James E., death of, 538
n.; recomds. King as govr., 469 m.
District Attorneys, see United States
Attorneys.
District Court (E. Fla.), expense accts.
ment. by marshal, 370.
District Court clerk, fees as compens.,
356.
District Judges, ment., 239.
District of Columbia, E. Law native of,
358, 361; Scott appd. from, 52;
W. S. Smith appd. from, 52.
District of St. Marys, part of E. Fla.
attached to, 436.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1017
Doane, Charles, signer, 288.
Dodson, Nathaniel, appd. p. m., Clai-
borne, Ala., 916 n.
Doggett (Daggett), John L., appd. and
comma. to legis. council, 913; appa.
p. m., Jacksonville, 846; recomd. for
legis. council, 859; signer, 530; signs
for Suarez as petit juror, 934.
Domingo, Manuel, signer, 289.
Dominguez, Manuel, signer, 310, 315.
Dominques, John, claim for timber cut
by U. S. troops, 931.
Donations, act passes granting, 820 m.;
reland, 297.
Donelson (Donaldson), Lt. Andrew
Jackson, ment., 348; with Jackson in
Nashville, 304.
Donnelly, George, signer, 287.
Doty, James D., of Mich. Terr., re-
comd. as terr. secy., 44 n.
Dougherty, Thomas, clk. H. R. attests
act, 8.
Dougherty (Daugherty), William, petit
juror, 611, 613 n.; signer, 288.
Dousman, H., signer, 401, 450; Wor-
thington draws bill in favor of, 334.
Dove, William P., solicits appt. as U. S.
marshal, 640 n.
Doyle, Edmund P., arrest of, 597; letters
ment. to: Jackson, 409, Walton, 305;
note re, 305; petit juror, 611; prisoner
of Indians, 579; rift with Richards,
602; tried and acquitted in Pensacola,
597.
Dragoon Barracks (St. Augustine),
recomá. for sale, 203; taken over by
city author., 586, 587.
Dragoon quarters, on Pensacola Bay, in
disrepair, 156.
Drummond, William, grand juror, 960;
j. p., St. Johns Co., 359; nativity, 359;
signer, 566.
Drysdale, John, agrees with Worthing-
ton re validity of acts of old govt.
until new officers appear, 444–446;
let. to Worthington, 444–446; opinion
re Worthington's view of status of E.
Fla. officials pending arrival new
officers, 442–444; signer, 350, 367, 401,
449, 450, 530. See also Rodman,
John, and Drysdale.
Dry Tortugas, English wreckers operate
betw., and Cape Florida, 382; in rel. to
Key West, 352, 362, 412; lighthouse:
authd. for, 651 n., recoma. at, 388;
ment., 686; ships avoid, 388.
Dubise, John, signer, 310, 315.
DuBose, J., appd. j. p., 194 n.
DuBose (DeBose), John, alderman, St.
Augustine, 358; applies for appt. as
inspector revenue and capt. of rev.
cutter for Fla. Keys, 684–685; appa.:
alderman, St. Augustine, 133 n., clk.
cts., 358, clk. to succeed Murray, 358;
certif. re services of Forbes as mayor,
St. Augustine, 597; clk. city council,
St. Augustine, signs certif., 597;
compens. in fees, 359; confers with
capt. of Brit. vessel, 685; grand
juror, 797; j. p., St. Johns Co., 359;
let. to Rodman, 684–686; nativity,
358, 359; on comm. to draft St.
Augustine city council resol., 218; pd.
for services to St. Augustine, 818 n.;
rept. and recomas. by, re clearing s.
coast of Fla. of wreckers and smug-
glers, 684–686; resigns as alderman,
358; signer, 349, 450, 530.
Duces tecum, writ of, against Reynolds
and Alvarez, 730.
Ducker, Benjamin, petit juror, 613 n.
Duncan, Lt. Silas, in command of the
Ferret, 776.
Duncan, William, recs. Overton's sal. as
agt., 631.
DuPont, G., signer, 764.
Durant, Louis, signer, 310, 315.
Durante, Manuel, signer, 288, 309, 314.
Dusar and Israel, suit against, by U. S.,
66 n.
Duval, Daniel, of Ala., recomd. as U. S.
marshal, 591 n.
DuVal, Judge William P., appd. and
commd. terr. judge (E. Fla.), 4 n.,
42–43, 51, 55, 160; approves appt.
Gaither as dist. atty., 356; charge to
grand jury ment., 348; charts St.
Johns r., 285; late arrival of, 195, 240,
272; leaves with Bell for Washington,
328; ment., 175, 356; observes illegal
cut. live oak on St. Johns r., 370;
query re compens. as judge, 285;
recoma.: as judge, 3, as govr., 371–
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1018
I N DE X
372; recommends: Gaither as land
commr., 300, Gibson as dist. atty.,
300, inhabs. E. Fla. to legis. council,
407, Law as land commr., 300; rejects
appt. by act. govr. of clk. of ct., 284;
requests copies of U. S. laws and repts.
Sup. Ct., 285; salary as judge, 356
n.; sketch of, 4 n.; solicits appt. as
judge, 4; spelling of name, 4 m.; let.
to Sec. War, 4; tenure, 43; welcomed
by grand jury, 295.
DuVal, Gov. William P., absence: bars
Smith from oath of office, 554, 555,
in Ky., 627, on official leave, 561, 583,
reported by Walton, 601; acks. receipt
of: comms. of members legis. council,
470, 489, 534, 913 n., laws, 478;
advises: against Indian treaty during
winter, 1822–23, 558, liberal allow. of
rations for Indians, 501, postpone.
treaty conf. with Indians, 554, quick
action re Indians, 501; alleged interfer.
in terr. deleg. elec., 542–546; appd.
and comma. govr., 469–470; appts.
by: Dexter as subagt. Indian affairs,
681, Reynolds as keeper St. Augus-
tine archs., 575, 657, Richards as
Indian interp., 579; approves payt. of
rent for ct. house, 663; arrival at St.
Augustine for legis. session, 647, 675,
677; assures Sec. State of early return
to Fla., 583; authd. to: draw funds to
defray lawful claims for service, 560,
employ Dexter as temp. subagt., 721,
employ Richards as interp., 519;
cannot call out militia without Pres.
consent, 744; commends Morris, 597
n.; comms. of land commrs. sent to,
429 n.; complains of lack of courts,
legis. council, and customs officials,
479; complains re Rodman's occu-
pancy of pub. blag. as private resid.,
731, 732; contracts for Indian rations
with Chaires, 940 n.; corr. with
Eustis encla. to Sec. War, 547; criti-
cism of admin. of, 539, 542–546;
dates of: arrival and begin. of duties,
456, 469 m., 475, arrival at Pensacola,
457 n., arrival at St. Augustine for
meet. legis. council, 675, begin.
salary, 470 n., comm. as govr., 356
n.; decries char. of immig. to Fla., 649;
demands surrender of murderers, 501,
503; departs for legis. meet. at St.
Augustine, 665; desires: funds be de-
posited in bank of New Orleans, 923,
instrs. re Indian manag. and policy,
471-472, instrs. to occupy pub. blóg.,
731, 732, leave to visit Ky., 534, 536,
militia ordered to take fug. slaves,
744, removal of troops from center of
Pensacola, 470, 472; directs: acts of
legis. council be copied, 663, clks. of
cts. to take possess. of archs., 688,
Walton to return to Pensacola, 688;
draft in favor of Tyler to be pd.,
452–453; draws bill on Sec. State to
defray printing cost and legis. ex-
pense, 537–538, 561–562; early return
from Ky. assured, 599; employs clk.,
848; encloses: accts. of Gaither and
Hynes to Johnson to arrange settle.,
566–567, bill for print. terr. laws, 687,
Fitzgerald's acct. for print. terr.
laws, 743, Gould's acct. for print.
acts legis. council, 699, Hanham's
acct. for expenses as sheriff and jailor,
726, 777, to Sec. State acct. for print.
terr. laws, 683, to Sec. State memorial
of Escambia Co. justices, 479, to Sec.
War talks by Indian chiefs, 501;
escapes yellow fever, 531; expected
in St. Augustine for legis. council
sess., 555; expected to dispose of
govt. house, St. Augustine, 500;
failed to confer with Walton prior to
depart. for Ky., 557–558; fails to
meet Gadsden, 970; fears council
members from E. Fla. will not appear,
470; has no funds to repay Walton for
disburs., 843; hopes perm. capital
will be establd., 537; Humphreys' ex-
penses to be sent to, 674; Indian
commr., signs rept., 751; informed re
distrib. pub. blógs. betw. milit. and
civil powers in Pensacola, 488; instrs.
by, to Brooke to arrest illegal cutters
of timber, 834; instrs. to, re; author.
and duties as supt. Indian affairs,
452–455, estab. office for Indian
affairs, 691, preven. of illegal cut. of
timber, 669; invited to be commr.
U. S. at Seminole negots., 518; issues
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1019
procl. against unlicensed traders, 548;
Jackson's opinion re, 160; laments
inability of legis. council to organize,
490; lays legis. program before coun-
cil, 490 n.; leaves: St. Augustine for
Washington, 647, Washington prior
to Smith's appt. as judge, 555; legis.
council's resol. of approval of, 715;
lets. of, submitted to Pres., 510; lets.
re Seminole treaty sent to Pres., 778,
779; letters ment. to: Brooke, 847,
Call, 854, Eustis, 533, Gibbs and
Tingle, 688, Humphreys, 533, J. L.
Smith, 555, Sec. State, 300, 472, 510,
532, 560, 652, 979, Sec. War, 488, 508,
518, 554, 558, 559, 607, 689–691, 697,
721, 774–775, 807, 925, 939; letters to:
Brooke, 834, Dexter, 681, Eustis,
547–548, Johnson, 566–567, Maury,
837, Pres., 406–407, 507–508, 529,
531–532, 852–853, Sec. Navy, 853–
854, Sec. State, 284–285, 300, 470–
471, 478-479, 489–491, 534–538, 583,
599–600, 649, 652–653, 675, 682–683,
687–688, 726, 727, 731–732, 751,
847–849, 907, -979–980, Sec. War,
471–473, 491–492, 501-502, 533–534,
732–734, 744–745, 746—747, 787, 832,
848–849, 904–905, 908–909, 922–924,
964; letters to, from: Act. Adjt. Genl.,
807, Eustis, 548–550, Hanham, 727,
Maury, 615, 774, Sec. State, 510, 560,
563, 669, Sec. War, 452–455, 488,
508–509, 518–519, 689–691, 697, 721,
774–775, 925–927, 939–940, Worth-
ington, 447; long absence from post
of duty criticized, 539; may license
Indian traders, 504; ment., 443;
nativity, 356; needs: clk. in absence
of terr. secy., 688, use of pub. blags.
occupied by troops, 470; no drafts to
be made on War Dept., 453; no funds
avail. to publ. terr. laws, 507; no
inform. re arrival of, 496; no intent
to trifle with Indians, 578; notified
of illegal trade, 926–927; objection to
abandon. of milit. post at St. Marks
not recd. in time, 807; one of Indian
commrs., 713; opinions: Indians
should not occupy land betw. Alachua
and Suwannee r., 533, inhabs. E.
Fla. satisfied with his admin., 688,
more good land in Fla. than in La.,
848, Neamathla and band will not go
to reserv. unless milit. force is present,
832, print. costs too high, 687, Semi-
noles should be joined to Creek
nation, 533, treaty with Seminoles
should be delayed, 534; oppos. to, in
Fla., 649, ordered to prepare plans
for treaty conf. with Seminoles, 509;
orders: arrest of Doyle, 597, copy
legis. acts fund. to St. Augustine, 663,
govt. house (St. Augustine) be used
for courts, legis. council, and land
commrs., 732, Humphreys to lead
Seminole chiefs to Washington, 964,
mayor of Pensacola to provide for
sick seamen, 507; plans for St. Marks
visit to execu. Seminole treaty, 964;
plans removal of govt. property to
site near capital, 907; prepares to
leave for Ky., 539; procl. by, 504;
procl. by, re annul. trade licenses
granted by act. Indian agts., 694;
promises economy, 964; protests or-
der evacuating St. Marks, 787;
queries by, re: approp. for expenses of
St. Augustine, 688, length of session
of legis. council, 470, loc. of Indian
agcy. and rations for Indians as per
treaty, 746—747, pay for future clks.,
848–849; reaches Fla. via New Or-
leans, 649; reason for late appt. as
Indian commr., 713; recomd. for
replace. of, 715 m.; recommends:
appt. of new members of legis. coun-
cil, 490, Ayres as Indian subagt., 923,
enforc. Jackson's talk with Indians,
491–492, Gadsden as survi. pub.
lands, 943 n., Neamathla visit to
Washington, 904, public. U. S. laws
in the Floridian, 682, Rua for appt.
to legis. council, 490, St. Augustine-
Pensacola ră. be opened by troops,
492, 607, visit of Seminole chiefs to
Washington, 922; rents: office in St.
Augustine for terr. secy., 687, space
for office in St. Augustine, 731;
reports: discontent in Pensacola sub-
sides, 652, factions in Pensacola and
St. Augustine, 649, ment. against
char. of, 715, proposed move of capi-
tal, 907, re interior Fla., 832, re terr.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1020
I N DE X
Indian trade licenses, 454, to pay
salaries of Indian agt. and subagt.,
453; suggests: delay of treaty conf.
with Indians, 576, rent of quarters
for exec. and legis. uses, 472; tenure
as govr., 469; thinks highly of Span.
inhabs., 531; time for removal of
Seminoles left to discretion of, 939;
to apply for print. U. S. laws in the
Floridian, 743; to be advised re
Pelham's proposed absence, 475; to
fwd. acct. and vouchers to Sec. State,
837; to leave: for Ky., 538, for St.
Augustine, 652, St. Augustine for
inspect. of country, 751; to loc. office
and resid. at Tallahassee, 979; to pay
clk. from personal funds if govt.
refuses, 848; to return to Pensacola,
751; travels to St. Augustine by land,
675; unable to engage passage on
ship to St. Augustine, 675; urges:
early allot. of land for Indian settle.,
491, order for repayt. to Pensacola
by coll. of customs funds expended in
care of sailors, 507, same policy re
Span. inhabs. as adopted in La.,
508, settle. of Hanham's claims, 727;
U. S. troops placed under requis. of,
to prevent destruc. pub. timber, 7.26;
will attend to preserv. of timber, 682.
DuVal County, alleged interfer. of
sheriff in elec., 545; in second brigade
militia, 659 n.; query re marshal's
acct. of expense of prisoners in, 667;
resid. of: Bellamy, 859, Doggett, 859;
Reynolds appd. keeper of archs., 575
n.; sup. ct. processes to be served by
sheriff of, 666.
Duvalle, Carlos, signer, 625.
Duvigneau, Leon, signer, 761.
Easter, Richard J., indicted for riotous
conduct, 893; law partner of Call, 39
n.; ment., 306; signer, 481.
Easter, R. S., witness, not found, 614 n.
East Florida (occupancy and temp.
admin.), boundary: for admin. pur-
poses, 100, 104, for appointive pur-
poses, 42, 45, 49, 51; Butler appd. to
receive, 34–35, 59, 66, 335; cruise by
naval ships along e. coast, 39 m.;
dividing line with W. Fla. found in
affairs, 682–683, 687–688, re yellow
fever, 531, unfavor. attitude of inhabs.
against, disappears, 675; reputed
salary, 539; requested to fund.
vouchers for disburse. of funds, 774;
requests: all lets. to be directed to
Tallahassee, 979, appt. Gadsden and
Ripley to run Seminole reserv. line,
752, 779, 783, clk. for terr. secy., 979,
detail of troops for St. Marks, 928,
explan. of drawing funds for terr.
expense, 979, funds to pay cost of
moving to new capital, 907, leave to
return to Ky., 852–853, let. re funds
and use of pub. blags. be laid before
Pres., 471, part of pub. blag. for use
of ct. and clk., 285, Sec. Navy to
order vessel to transp. terr. records
and furniture from St. Augustine to
St. Marks, 853–854; returns to Fla.,
649; sails for St. Marks, 979; sal. pd.
as govr., 630, 632; sends Walton to
Pensacola on business, 848; signer,
350, 529; signs procl., 855; solicits
Shannon's contin. in office pending
arrival of terr. judge, 494; status as
supt. of Indian affairs: accts. to be
rendered quarterly, 454, allowed re-
payt. of expenses in Indian manag.,
690–691, certifies correct. of acct., 909,
claim of full sal. as, rejected, 925–926,
compens. when an agt. is present, 775,
compens. when no agt. is present,
774–775, denied add. salary, 690–691,
discusses claim re expense acct.,
732–734, dispatch of funds to, for
Indian expenses, 597, docs. re accts.
of other Indian supts., 492, economy
in Indian admin. stressed, 519, encls.
accts. to Sec. War, 689, 908, 909,
extent of compens. explained to,
689–692, extra expenses allowed, 453,
fixes date and place for Indian treaty
conf., 501, 533, 558, funds allotted to,
by Treas. on basis of quart. estimates,
453, 509, no compens. for duty as,
453, repts. by, re Indian rels., 490–491,
501-505, 533, 832, 922–923, requests
specific sum be fixed for future allow.
in Indian affairs, 734, talk with Semi-
nole chiefs, 503–504, to assist in
Indian treaty negots., 659 n., to issue
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988




I N DE X 1021
ordinances, 157 n., documents re:
armaments recd. from Span. govt.
discussed, 170, occup. cited, 418 n.,
pub. property sent to Jackson, 166,
sovereignty sent by Coppinger to
Worthington, 177; estab. customs
dists. in, 51; foreign cargoes landed
in, 24; ment., 31; negots. discussed re
removal of Span. troops from, 11–12;
occupation of: Butler's comm. for,
34–35, certain offices filled on date of,
168, completed, 165, docs. re, to be
sent to Sec. State, 115, instrs. by
Jackson re, 97–99, note on sources re,
167, plan for, 14 n., 49; ordinances: by
Jackson sent to, 157, estab. cos. and
co. cts. sent to Worthington, 133,
public. of, 134 n.; organiz. of temp.
govt.: approved by Jackson, 228, date
of, 124, 125, discussed, 101, ends, 447,
exists until Cong. action, 107, rept.
re, 146; private secy. to act. secy.
ad interim, 179; removal of Span.
inhabs. and officers from: date of,
proposed, 107, docs. re, 19–20, 22–24,
28, 29–35, 46–47, 48–49, 59–65, 66–70,
72–73, 79–81, 83–84, 85–88, 95–97,
99—100, 102–103, 106, 107–109, 110–
113, 114–116, 124–125, gradual, 295,
Minorcans remain, 330, plans com-
plete for, 102–103, plans discussed for,
86–88, to Cuba, 329; separate military
dist. from W. Fla., 21 m.; transfer to
U. S.: act of, 111–112, auth. of
commrs. Butler and Coppinger ceases
on date of, 340–341, civil officials not
present, 113, completed, 112–113,
confusion re instrs., 89–90, date of,
125, 341, 344, 348, dilatory measures
of Mahy re, 100, docs. re, sent to
Washington, 116, Jackson's anxiety
re delay in, 140–141, ment., 11, 135,
341, 755, 756, note on docs. re, 154,
order discussed, 89–90, problems dis-
cussed, 67–68, procl. by govr. re,
110–111, Sec. State expects early, 100,
Span. author. ceased on date of, 341,
Span. govr. recs. order for, 100,
summary of negots, re, 111–112; U. S.
atty.: Bird appd. as, 49–50, to be
appd., 48; weather conditions, 119,
136, 166, 171, 381. See also Archives
(E. Fla.); East Florida District; East
Florida Land District; Florida Terri-
tory (under occupancy and temp.
admin.); Florida Territory (perm.
govt.); St. Augustine; West Florida
(occupancy and temp. admin.).
East Florida District, affairs in, dis-
cussed, 437-446; boundary, new east-
ern, 955; chaos in, prior to arrival of
judge and other officers, 486; criticism
of DuVal in, 599; DuVal seeks ship
bound for, 649; few polling places,
544–545; Hernandez recomd. as brig.
genl. militia, 529; Indians: subagcy.
vacant, 697, to be notified of meet. at
St. Marks, 548; inhabs. satisfied with
DuVal as govr., 688; land commrs.
recoma. for, 580–581; legis. council:
comms. of members from, sent to
Murray, 641 n., meets in, 665, mem-
bers from, not present, 479, need for
full repres. from, 461; list of grand and
petit jurors, 797–801; ment., 498;
more popul. than W. Fla., 407;
naturaliz. in, 431–435; no U. S. ct.
organized in, 375; not aided by treaty
commrs. or Indian agt. re return of
slaves, 857–858; opposes union with
Ga., 570; petitions and memorials from
inhabs.: against union with W. Fla.
and for varied improvements, 570–
573, for Fernandina as deposit of
wrecked goods, 812–814; rd. from St.
Augustine into Ga. important to, 523;
seat at St. Augustine, 51; sup. ct.
estabd. in, 392; sup. judge: appt. of,
416–417, not qualified due to absence
of govr., 563, unable to give oath in
time for ct. sess., 555–556; United
States attorney: Mason appd.,680, 806,
new comm. to, 507, prov. for, 394;
U. S. marshal: appt. of, 639–640, one
provided, 394, recomd. of W. Smith
as, 529–530, to hold property of
wrecked ships, 723. See also West
Florida District.
East Florida Herald, St. Augustine,
clipping from, 542–546; procl. by
govr. publd. in, 548; recomd. as
publisher of terr. laws, 645.
East Florida Land District, H. R.
Comm. rept. and resol. re claims in,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1022 I N DE X
Education, char. in Span. Fla., 621;
old forts recomd. as site for schools,
319; petition of cits. (W. Fla.) for,
308-311.
Edwards, Maj. Haden, memorial ment.,
162 n.; offer to repair barracks ap-
proved, 162; proposes to rebuild bar-
racks at Pensacola, 153.
Edwards, John, j. p., St. Johns Co.,
359; signer, 566.
Edwards, Gov. and Sen. Ninian, of Ill.,
ment., 784; recomás.: DuVal as govr.,
372 n., DuVal as judge, 3 n., Hubbard
as judge, 43 n., Overton as land
commr., 428 n., Walton for office, 5 n.
Edwards, Rep. Weldon N., of N. C.,
recomds. Branch as govr., 10 n.
Eigle, Samuel, petit juror, 935.
Elections, bill for service of judges and
clks., 714–715; for terr. deleg. dis-
cussed, 543–544, 716–717; irregulari-
ties alleged, 542–546; law criticized,
543–544; notes re terr. deleg., 693;
qualifs. of voters, 693; vote by soldiers:
discussed, 544, opposed, 473–474.
Ellicott, Andrew, ment., 159; note re,
149.
Elliott (Eliot), Sen. John, of Ga.,
recomas.: Boisclair as U. S. marshal,
46 n., Jackson as survi., 943 n.,
Walton as terr. secy., 56.
Elliott, Surg. Moses H., recomas. King
as govr., 469 m.
Ellis, Daniel, signer, 298.
Ellis, William, signer, 322.
Ellison, William, of S. C., recomd. as
dist. atty., 50 n.
Ellsworth, Thomas, signer, 288.
Elmore, B., of S. C., solicits appt. as U.
S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 414 n.
Elton, Capt. John H., advised to exercise
care in judging lands as pub., 418;
believes timber depreds. will cease,
408; gives notice to the Gipsy to stop
loading timber, 407, 408; letters ment.
to Sec. Navy, 407, 417; letters to
Sec. Navy, 407–409, 430–431; letters
to, from Sec. Navy, 377–378, 417–
418; ordered to take U.S. brig Spark
to St. Johns r. to prevent illegal
ship. of timber, 377–378; recs. funds
from Washington,408; relevant lets. re
950–951; inhabitants: memorial for
added land commrs. discussed, 619–
622, request right to settle land where
titles are not involved, 571, urge
estab. of added land bal., 570-571;
land claims in, 426; land commrs.:
appt. of, 656, appt. of, discussed, 917,
bd. estabd., 571 n., dispute with
keeper of archs., 755–759, Hamilton's
appt. popular, 716, recomds. for, 619–
622, sessions to be held at St. Augus-
tine, 424, 428 n., sources re work of,
946 n., 947 n., 948 n., 949 n., 950 m.;
land office to be estab. in, 638; new
land bal. for, 636; queries proposed re
interpret. of classes of Span. land
grants, 825–827; twp. reserved for
seminary of learning, 638. See also
West Florida Land District.
East Florida Province (Span.), archives:
kept by alcalde, 336, of treas.,
believed taken to Havana, 346, seized,
649, transfö. to U. S., 768; govt.
differed from W. Fla. province, 620–
621; inhabs.: claims against U. S.,
745, exempt from taxation, 621; land
grants: discussed, 580, to aliens, 621.
See also West Florida Province
(Span.).
Eastman, Capt. John L., court mar-
tialed, 778; sentence approved by
Pres., 782. -
Eaton, Sen. John M., of Tenn., recomás.;
Butler as marshal, 46 n., Call as terr.
secy., 44 n., Overton as land commr.,
428 n., Sevier as clk. dist. ct., E.
Fla., 91.
Econchatemeco, reserv. for, in Middle
dist., 970.
Eddins (Edens; Edding), Richard, grand
juror, 614 n., 790, 888; signer, 321,893.
Edes, Richard W., ed. Florida Gazette,
267; let. to, from Brent, 267; re-
quested to send Gazette to State Dept.,
267.
Edgley (Edgeley), John, affid. ment.
against Steele, 912 n.; grand jury
witness, 614 n., 889; petit juror, 613 n.,
614 n.; signer, 322; storekeeper, Pen-
sacola, 885; testimony in Gerrish
assault case, 884.
Edmondston, Charles, signer, 761.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X 1023
timber depreds. sent to, 377; reports:
loss of boat in storm, 407, timber
depreds., 430–431; to supply timber
cutters with law re preserving timber
of U. S., 418.
Endeavor, U. S. sloop, to carry Span.
munitions to Havana, 103; to trans-
port Span. officers' families to
Havana, 86, 87.
Eneamathla, see Neamathla.
England, birthplace of: Gibbs, 357, 360,
Hanham, 357, Law, 356, Sully, 358;
illegal ship. of timber to, planned, 375;
power of King's atty. genl. ment.,
880–881; queries re: acts of Parl. re
compens. to English grantees, 455–
456, copy of treaty with Spain, 455.
See also Great Britain.
England, Bishop John, explains rel. of
Cath. Ch. in Fla. to U. S., 458–459;
letters ment. to: Hamilton, 501, Pres.,
498; let. to Pres., 458–459; let. to
Pres. sent to Hamilton, 498; negots.
under way at Rome for change of
bishopric of St. Augustine Ch., 459;
opinion re land grants to church dis-
cussed, 492; protests Hamilton's claim
re church property, 501.
English wreckers, operations on s.
coast ment., 192.
Enquirer, extracts art. from Floridian,
250.
Enterprize, U. S. brig, conveys Smith
and party to Pensacola, 198; to
escort ships with Span. troops from
St. Augustine, 14.
Entralgo, Juan (John) Fondless de,
appd.: notary pub., St. Augustine,
121, secy., St. Augustine, 120; certifies
transfer of E. Fla., 112; declines:
accepting returned papers, 419, 420,
appt. as judge, 358, oath of alleg. to
U. S., 346, 358; nativity, 358; offered
judgeship, E. Fla., 194 n.; papers
taken from: by Jackson's order, 272,
302, 755, 756, 758, offered to be
returned, 419, 420; secy. of cabildo,
St. Augustine, 1.12; signer, 762.
Ervin (Erwin), James, grand juror, 936.
Erving, Capt. John, let. to Galt, 725–
726.
Escambia Bay, proposed Pensacola-Ft.
Mitchell rd. crosses head of, 856.
Escambia County, Alvarez appd. keeper
archs. of, 575, n.; appts. in, 131 m.;
expenses small and based on Span.
customs, 494; in first brigade militia,
659 n.; members of ct, and bar
recoma. Brackenridge as judge, 317,
318; ment., 227, 882, 894, 896, 897,
898; pay of atty. ment., 494; rept.
re jud. affairs, 280–281; residence of:
de la Rua, 859, Fry, 859, Noriego, 859,
Wright, 859.
Escambia County Court, Coulons
brothers indicted in, 910; justices of:
claim of Garnier as, 618, 661, Garnier
appd. as, 662, memorial for added
pay from, 480–481, paid from fees,
480, pay of Shannon as, 661, settle.
of claims discussed, 573–574, state-
ment of Garnier's service, 574; oper.
under Jackson's ordin. discussed,
493–494; proced. based on Span. law,
480; scope of work, 480; state. of
judge of, ment., 910.
Escambia River, ment., 234; rq. from
Cahawba strikes, at terr. line, 766.
Escribano, certif. ackd. before, 118.
Escriga, Jose, signer, 310.
Escriga, Josep, signer, 315.
Espiritu Santo Bay (Santo Spirituo), see
Tampa Bay.
Esseltyne, John B., allowed salary as
coll. at Cape Vincent (N.Y.), 831.
Estates, papers re admin. proposed to be
left in St. Augustine, 105.
Estefanopoli, Nicolas, signer, 7.62.
Estella, Jose, signer, 819.
Estrada (Estrado) y Torro, Juan Jose
de, query re retention of corresp. with
Mitchell, 745.
Eubank, Stephen, grand juror, 822,933;
signer, 566.
Europe, 17.
Eustis (Eustace), Lt. Col. Abraham,
act. subagt., St. Augustine: accepts
temp. duty as Indian agt., 495, 498,
547, believed Indian treaty conf. to be
held, 558, consults Bell re Indian
policy, 495, discussed, 733, doubts
Indians will attend St. Marks conf.,
549, finds no instrs, re Indian policy,
For identical names, see index mote, p. 988



1024
I N DE X
Smith, 587–589, Worthington, 214,
217, 273; ment., 195, 228, 533;
nativity, 358; non-arrival as military
commat., 195, 197; note re, 229;
offers services in rd. construct., 502;
plan for housing troops, 274; recomas.
Bell as Indian agt., 244; relieves
Pelham because of illness, 495; reports
re: distrib. of pub. blógs. as ordered
by Sec. War, 306–307, Indian rels.,
495–497, 577, stop to timber depreds.,
430, timber depreds., 363, timber
depreds. sent to Scott, 378; requested
to rept. re milit. matters in E. Fla.,
229; sends: Dexter-Wanton let. to
Sec. War, 243, message to Micanope,
549; signer, 367, 401; state. re Bell's
case ment., 269; terr. deleg. desires
stop to intervention in civil matters,
604; visits Elton on board the Spark,
430; warned to exercise care in
investig. timber depreds., 379.
Evans (Evens), Charles, petit juror,
611, 613 n., 614.
Evans, David, signer, 322.
Evans, John, signer, 367.
Evens, William, signer, 477.
Everett, Lucius, petit juror, 963 n.
Everett, Dr. —, ment., 708.
Every, David, petit juror, 613 n.
Ewing, Charles, signer, 287, 321.
Ewing, Robert M., of Ky., recomds.
Bradford as land commr., 718 n.
Exchange of flags, ment. re Pensacola,
147.
Executive Court, under Jackson, clk. of,
discussed, 499.
Executive Proceedings (Register) of the
Governor, character of, 666; dis-
appearance of, 391 n.; to be sent to
Pres. by terr. secy., 666.
Exploration, instrs. to Pénières re, 27.
Ex Post Facto laws, prohibd., 398.
Expresses, authd. by Sec. War, 224 n.;
estabd. from Ft. St. Marks to Ft.
Mitchell, 223–224.
Fagan, Walter, signer, 323.
Fairbank, Samuel, grand juror, 797,
960, 963 n.; signer, 350, 367, 449.
Fairbanks, –, arrested for theft of
slaves, 267; arrest of, on order of
495, instrs. to, by DuVal, 547, laws
re trade with Indians sent to, 547,
ordered to inform Indians of post-
poned treaty conf., 554, pending
arrival of Humphreys, 495, refuses
passports to Indian country, 495,
solicits replies to queries re Indian
policy, 496–497, to confer with Pond
chief re Indian conf., 548, to corresp.
with govr., 513, will not interfere with
white settlers near Indian bound.
unless overt act occurs, 548, will
notify Indians of E. Fla. re conf. at
St. Marks, 547–548, without funds to
deal with Indians, 548–549; advises
Bell to withdraw from Ft. St. Marks,
218; arrival in St. Augustine ex-
pected, 191; attests sigs. of Dexter
and Wanton, 245; commands at St.
Augustine and Amelia Island, 362,
385; consulted re seizure of Span.
archs., 239; corresp. with: DuVal sent
to Sec. War, 547, Jackson sent to Sec.
War, 302, Sec. War sent to Elton, 377,
Smith sent to QMG, 585, Worthington
sent to city council, 223; date of
assuming command at St. Augustine,
218; declines appt as alderman, 358;
dispute re pub. blags.: accuses city
corp. of taking property assigned to
milit., 589, asks for funds to execute
Sec. War orders, 307, answer to query,
587–589, claims against civil author.,
604, continued, 241, ends with
Worthington, 272-274, instrs. to
release part of barracks for pub.
prison, 604 n., ordered to vacate
resid., 732, query re author. of city to
dispose of pub. blógs., 587, resol. of
bd. of health for removal of hospital
sent to, 214, yields to Jackson's
opinion, 273–274; letters ment. to:
DuVal, 548, 549, 558, Jackson, 302,
Pres., 267, Sec. War, 285, 373, 512,
Walton, 577, Worthington, 249; letters
to: DuVal, 548–550, Pelham, 498,
Sec. War, 243–244, 306–307, 363–364,
495–496, 547, Smith, 587, 589, Wor-
thington, 218, 273–274; letters to,
from: Dexter and Wanton, 244-245,
DuVal, 547–548, Nourse, 378–379,
Pelham, 497, Sec. War, 285–286,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1025
Bell, 246; suit against Bell discussed,
267–269.
Fanning, Maj. Alexander C. W., com-
mands Ft. Gadsden, 33; corresponds
with Jackson, 147; desires vessel to
transp. effects of troops at Ft.
Gadsden, 101; estabs. express from
St. Marks to Ft. Mitchell, 223–224;
let. ment. to Jackson, 109; letters to:
Jackson, 101–102, QMG, 223–224;
lets. to, from Jackson, 53, 109;
ordered to abandon Ft. Gadsden, 53;
repts. occup. of St. Marks, 101; to
occup St. Marks and move Span.
troops to Pensacola, 53.
Farmer, J. C., signer, 289.
Farnham, Peter, keeper of light house,
St. Augustine, 361; nativity, 361;
resigns, 361.
Fassiola, José, signer, 288, 310, 315.
Fatio, Francis (Francisco) J., accts. of,
for services as: clk. of elec., 714,
judge of elec., 714, 715; alderman, St.
Augustine, 358; appd.: alderman, St.
Augustine, 120, 194 n., city warden,
St. Augustine, 120, public translator,
St. Augustine, 121, secy. to land ba.,
946, temp. translator and interpreter,
179, translator and interpreter, 124;
attests sig. W. Smith, 573; home near
St. Johns r., 375, 411; interpreter and
translator, 360; justice of quorum,
441; leaves for Cuba, 358; letters ment.
to: Reynolds, 758, Reynolds and
Alvarez, 746; letters to, from: Rey-
nolds, 758, Reynolds and Alvarez,
746; nativity, 358, 359, 360; recomd.
as member legis. council, 423 n.;
resigns from city corpor., 358, 360;
secy. land commrs., E. Fla., 730;
signer, 349, 530, facing 702, 704, 764,
985; signs for F. P. Fatio and Sophia
Fleming, 858; suggests appt. of asst.
secy. land bá., 947; takes naturaliz.
oath, 434, 435; takes oath of alleg.
and accepts appt. to new city council,
193; translates Coppinger corr., 69.
See also Segui, Bernard, and Sanchez
and Fatio.
Fatio, Francis Philip, appa. justice of
peace, St. Augustine (lower dist. St.
Johns r.), 121; justice of peace for St.
Johns Co., 359; pay as associate
judge, St. Johns Co., 359 n.; recoma.
as member legis. council, 616; re-
comds. Hanham as U. S. marshal, 639
n.; signed for, by F. J. Fatio, 858;
signer, 401, 858.
Felony, trial for, 739.
Fenwick, Col. John R., commas. troops
at Pensacola and St. Marks, 385;
informs Walton of Bell's arrest, 305;
let. to Walton, 483; let. to Walton
encla. to Maury, 481; let. to, from
Gaines, 117; part of command at
Pensacola removed to Norfolk, 836;
recomds. Davison as U. S. marshal,
591 n.; scope of command, 117; to
complete plans to occupy St. Augus-
tine, 22 n.; Walton could demand and
rec. govt. house for civilian use, 483.
Ferguson, Jesse, signer, 288, 309, 314.
Fernandez, Domingo, signer, 565, 813,
816.
Fernandez, Francisco, signer, 310, 315.
Fernandez, José, signer, 310, 315,
facing 702, 762.
Fernandez, Manuel, signer, 310, 315.
Fernandina, attached to St. Marys,
Ga., coll. dist., 815; Butler arrives at,
97; Cross ordered to, to plan occup.
of St. Augustine, 22; date of arrival
of troops from Boston, 46; goods avail.
for ship. from, 815–816; grand jurors
from, 933; land post route omits, 851;
memorial for desig., as port of deposit
for wrecked goods, 812–814; memorial
of inhabs, for donation to, of 1500
varros, 819; ment., 30; move of troops
to St. Augustine vetoed, 63; needs no
military force, 48–49; occup. by
U. S., 20 n.; rev. cutter and troops
from, preceded Elton to St. Johns r.,
407; Span. port of entry, 1811–1821,
815; type of imports avail. to, 815–
816; weekly mail from, to St. Marys,
Ga., authd., 851.
Ferrer, Francisco, signer, 310, 315.
Ferret, a navy vessel, non-arrival at
Key West, 776.
Ferreyra (Ferreira), D. Luisa, signer,
761.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988
301867–57–66



1026
I N DE X
Ferreyra (Ferrara; Ferreira), Fran-
cisco (Francis), petit juror, 961;
signer, 367, 371,450, facing 702, 704,
762, 764, 986.
Ferris, Thomas, signer, 323.
Finch, Henry, signer, 287.
Finch, Henry P., 322.
Finlay, James, petit juror, 613 n., 614
n.; signer, 350.
Finley, James, affid. ment. against
Steele, 911, n.; testimony in Gerrish
assault case, 884.
Fish, S., signer, 760.
Fisher, Rep. Charles, of N. C., recomas.
Branch as govr., 10 n.
Fisher, George, appd. alderman, Pensa-
cola, 131.
Fisher, J., signer 901.
Fisher, Peter, signer, 287.
Fishing boats (Amer.), operate under
Span. licenses, 382; (foreign), locus
of oper. of, 382.
Fitch, Thomas, appd. temp. atty. genl.,
E. Fla., 179; death of self and family,
240, 272, 357; former lawyer in Ga.,
272; gives oath to appointees to
office, St. Augustine, 194; note re, 132
n.; nativity, 272, 357; presiding
justice, St. Johns Co., 357; recomds.
Patterson, 195; takes oath as judge,
194.
Fitch, Mrs. Thomas, relative of Gov.
Clark of Ga., 272.
Fitzgerald, John, and Co., desires to
print U. S. laws, 743; let. to Sec.
State, 743; prints terr. acts, 743;
publishers of the Floridian, 743; sells
the Floridian to Hunt, 920.
Fitzgerald, John, and Co., and Hunt,
let. to Sec. State, 920.
Fitzgerald, –, evidence in Myers case,
893.
Fitzpatrick, Samuel B., signer, 566.
Fitzpatrick, Will, signer, 565.
Fitzpatrick, William, grand juror, 822.
Fitzpatrick, William H., signer, 566.
Fitzpatrick, William, Sr., grand juror,934.
Fitzsimons, Edward, petit juror, 613
n.; witness, 614 n.
Fitzsimons, John, signer, 288, 322.
Flags, date for exchange of, in E. Fla.,
107; exchange in E. Fla. discussed,
102–103; orders re exchange at Pensa-
cola, 108–109.
Fleischman, D., signer, 858, 962, 986.
Fleming, George, signer, 350, 858.
Fleming, John W. C., a proprietor of
Thompson's Island (Key West), 386.
Fleming, Lewis, grand juror, 933;
signer, 530.
Fleming, Sophia, signed for, by F. J.
Fatio, 858.
Flemings Island, grand jurors from, 933.
Florez, Ygnacio, signer, 288, 309, 314.
“Florida”, signs as author of “Anon.”
to Sec. State, 546.
Florida, a town, on route of proposed
Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell rd., 856.
Florida, a schooner, chartered to transp.
provs. to Tampa, 914, 916; Clark
sails on, to Cant. Brooke, 944; cop-
pering completed and return of, to
Pensacola, 927 n., libeled by Steele
for land. slaves, 911; price of purch.
by govt., 927; revenue cutter at Key
West, 942; sent to New Orleans for
coppering, 927; strength of, 920; to
move munitions to Havana, 88; to
return to Pensacola via St. Marks,
914; value and capacity of, 914, 915.
Florida (British), cession to Spain ment.,
177.
Florida Gazette, states yellow fever
brought from Havana, 532 n.
Florida Indians, let. ment. to Jackson,
409; subagt. appd. for, 81. See also
Indians; Seminole Indians.
Florida Keys, Brit. ships captured along,
405; center of pirates and wreckers,
295; danger to navig., 386-387; fug.
slaves from Tampa Bay on, 745, 763;
recomds. re clearing, of wreckers and
smugglers, 684–686; shipwrecks on,
750. See also Key Vacas.
Florida Point, Indian settle. at, 464;
ment., 206, 234.
Florida (Spanish), act (text) enablg:
Pres. to occupy, 5–8; Bethune native
of, 357, 361; comm. of Jackson to
occupy, 8–9; considered part of U. S.
after ratif. treaty of 1819, 250, 251;
delivery to U. S. discussed, 67–68;
div. of, 55; Drummond native of, 359;
expense of occup. borne by State
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N D E X
1027
Dept., 33, 37; evacu. of posts in, by
U. S. after treaty, 20 n.; Fatio native
of, 358, 359, 360; Forbes native of,
356, 358; govrs. may claim cannon,
23; islands near, to be occupied by
U. S., 15; no action planned to re-
move Creeks, 40–41; no funds to
move Span. troops from, 37; occup.
problem similar to La., 15; Penn
native of, 357, 361; plan discussed to
import slaves before U. S. occup., 38;
powers of Span. govrs. of, as of Mar.
3, 1821, transfo. to Amer. govrs.,
251; query re transp. of archives to
Havana, 11; right of Brit. subjects to
dispose of land claims in, 399; sources
re treaty ceding, to U. S., 5 n.-6 n.;
surrender of adjac. islands discussed,
68; transfer discussed, 30; treaty
cession discussed, 6 n., 30–31; Triay
native of, 358; U. S. occup. discussed,
53–54, 69–70. See also East Florida
(occupancy and temp. govt.); Florida
Territory (temp. govt.); West Florida
(occupancy and temp. govt.).
Florida Territory (under perm. govt.),
absence of courts, leg., customs offi-
cials et cetera in early period of admin.
of, 479; absence of govr., 583; act for
estab. govt. of, repealed, 399 m.; act
ment. re estab. perm. govt. for, 507;
act (text) to unite the provinces and
estab. overall govt., 389–399; act.
govr. to render accts. re temp. govt. of,
437; appt. of first: bā. land commrs.,
428–429, Indian agt. under new
govt., 429–430, judge, 416–417, legis.
council estabd., 422–423, terr. secy.,
413, U. S. atty., 413–414; bad fin.
condition, 624–625; char. of Indians
in, 750; char. of land in interior dis-
cussed, 848; civil govt. completely
organized, 536; commrs. appd. to
explore country for site for capital,
853 n., 855 n.; commrs. recomd.
Tallahassee as site of govt., 855 n.;
court of appeals estab., 52.4 n.;
criticism of: admin. of, 539–541, slow
organiz. of govt. of, 540–541; culti-
vation sugar cane, 570; defects in
govt. act organiz., 521–522; dispersed
Indian popul., 465; dissatisf. re
absence of govr., 563; distinctions
betw., and other terrs. re basic act,
390 n.; E. and W. Fla. disappear as
entities except for jud. and land
claims purposes, 389, 392; disputes
ment., 604; effect of act estab. new
govt. on previous govt. discussed,
440–446; estab. of: courts and jud.
dist., 392, new jud. dist., 954 n.;
existence of two divisions deplored,
643; first expenses to be pd. out of
approp. re Fla. treaty, 510; fix. of site
for seat of govt., 853 m.; fug. slaves
in (see entry under Slaves, fugitive);
harsh winter destroys crops, 678;
high cost of living, 502; hist. of pas-
sage of act estab., 389 m.; immigra-
tion: need for, 524–525, obstacles to,
570–573; inconven. of two capitals,
853; inconven. to inhabs. by estab.
of one govt., 570; Indian relations
(see Indians; Seminole Indians); in-
habs. of, lay out part of rd. to
Cahawba, Ala., 766; interior not
explored, 754; Jackson: advice solic-
ited re form of govt. for, 172, in-
dicates area fit for settlement, 233–
234, opinion re char. of land in, 233,
recomds. first steps of govt. similar
to La. Terr., 234, resig. as govr.,
275, 368; journals of commrs. to
select capital site publd., 855 n.;
kind of bank paper used, 923; laws
of, to be sent to Cong., 584; leg.
powers defined, 391-392; list of U. S.
laws applic. to, 395–397; loc. of
capital discussed, 643; loc. of best
land, 533; no approp. avail. to defray
expenses of, 510; no author. given to
terr. secys. to issue orders to army,
402; no funds to publ. laws of, 535;
no land communic. betw., and Ga.,
571; opinion exists that no legal govt.
prevails, 456; part of, attached to
St. Marys customs dist., 436; payt.
to claimants under temp. govt. dis-
cussed, 560; perm. div. opposed by
Jackson, 234; popul. divided betw.
St. Augustine and Pensacola, 643;
post routes (see under Post routes);
postal service (see under Postal
Service); query re funds for local
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1028
I N DE X
expenses, 979; rel. of milit. power to
civil during period of temp. govt.,
402–403; removal of Indians from,
recomd., 278; reorganiz. of, discussed,
328, 329, 330; rift betw. civil and
milit. powers, 604; Roads (see entry
under Roads); seat of govt. estabd.
at Tallahassee, 854, 907; ship laden
with illegally cut timber detained,
436; state. re accts. of officials of,
629–632; tropical agri. in, 381; un-
settled small claims of minor officials,
535; Walton appd. from, 413; Walton
becomes act. govr. on receipt of
comm. as terr. secy., 456–457 n.,
yellow fever epidemic (see under
Yellow fever). See also East Florida;
Florida (Brit.), Florida (Span.); West
Florida.
Florida Territory (under perm. govt.),
appts. by Fed. govt.: brigs. genl. militia,
529 n., bd. claims commrs., 56, colls.
customs, 52, 56, 125, 169, 199 n., 658,
govrs., 73–74, 469–470, Indian agts.,
220, 222–223, 278, 429–430, 452, In,
dian commrs., 659, Indian interpreter,
279, Indian subagt., 264, inspector
militia, 661, inspector of revenue, 52,
56, land commrs., 428–429, 656, 678,
711–712, 718, 805–806, 808, 849–850,
members legis. council, 73 n., 354 n.,
422–423, 449 n., 490 n., 640–641,
naval officer, 52, 56, postmasters, 169,
175, 197, 361, 846, quartermaster mi-
litia, 661, sup. ct. judges, 42–43, 51,
55, 173, 451, 805 n., 953–957, survr.
pub. lands, 32 n., 942–943, survi's. and
inspects. customs, 52, 56, 658, terr.
secys., 43–45, 51, 55, 91, 124, 158 n.,
180, 353,413, U. S. Attys., 49–51, 56,
100, 168, 413–414, 447 n., 589–590,
806, U. S. Marshals, 45–46, 51, 134–
135, 169, 506 n., 590–591, 639–640.
Florida Territory (under perm. govt.),
appts. by govr. or act. govr.: clk, to
govr., 848, co. clk., 662–663, co. solic-
itor, 725, Indian interpreter, 579, jus.
tices co. ct., 480, 662, justices of peace,
438, 546, keeper of archives, 657,
prosec. atty., 646–647, secy. archs.
comm., 593.
Florida Territory (under temp. govt.),
act estab. temp. govt., 5–8; absence
of appd. officials leaves void in E. Fla.,
136; amt. of approp. for temp. govt.
of, 480, 774,844; appt. of govr., 9–11;
appt. of local officials to be made from
inhabs. of, 57–58; appt. of officials
(1822) designed to estab. U. S. laws
in, 57; appts. by Fed. Govt., E. Fla.:
Bell as act. secy. and act. govr., 166,
superior judges, 242, Worthington as
secy. and act. govr., 44–45, 91, 98,
180; appts. by Fed. Govt., W. Fla.:
secretary and act. govr. (Walton),
43–44, Walton act. govr. during ab-
sence of Jackson, 238 (see also Walton,
George), superior judge (Fromentin)
42 n., 51, 55, 160, 173 (see also Fro-
mentin, Eligius); appts. by gotr. or
secy. and act. govr., E. Fla.: act. atty.
genl., 179, clk. dist. ct., 91, clk. St.
Johns co. ct., 195, constable, 194 n.,
keeper of archs., 361, 575, notaries
pub., 121, 361, police officers, 120,
pres. city council (St. Augustine), 120,
195, private secy. to act. govr., 179,
354 n., probate judge, 361, pub. trans-
lator and interpreter, 121, 124, 179,
recorder of deeds, 361, register of nat-
uralization, 354 n., register of wills,
361, secy. and act. govr., 44–45, 91,
secy. city council (St. Augustine), 120,
sheriffs, 194 n., 726, 777, syndic, 120,
temp. colls. customs, 121, 124; appts.
by govr. or secy. and act. govr., W. Fla.:
alcade and notary, 131, aldermen
(Pensacola), 131, 193, 194 n., clk.
city ct., 132, harbor master, 131,
health officers, 131, justices of peace,
121, 132, 194 n., 354 n., 361, mayor
(Pensacola), 120, 131, 226–227, mem-
bers bd. health, 121, member bd. pi-
lotage, 121, port warden, 131, resid.
physician, 131; Bell (act. secy. and act.
govr., E. Fla.): temp. appts. by, 179,
tenure, 114, 205, 209; conting. ex-
penses re execu. treaty of 1819, 604–
605; customs dists. establd. in, 7, 50–
51, 55; East Florida: citizens urge
central loc. for seat of terr.govt., 349,
disputes ment., 298, immig. to, small,
329, incumbents of offices to take oath
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



I N DE X
1029
of alleg. to U. S., 168, Indian affairs,
181,232, inhabs. anxious relands and
trade, 495, Jackson believes union
with Ga. would result from perm. div.
of Fla., 234, jud. dist., 392, 414 (see
also East Florida District), jud. offi-
cials, 356–357, 358, lack of space for
civil offices, 190–191, land commrs.
recomd. for, 284, list of officers appa.
by Pres. delivered to Worthington,
178, no funds for, 1821, 296, number
Span. inhabs., 295, opposes union with
Ga., 234, present. grand jury, 295–
296, petition of inhabs. for open. St.
Augustine-Pensacola ră., 401, register
pub. officials, 1821–1822, 355–362,
reorgan. of govt. completed, 365, re-
ports re affairs in, 327–329, 329–330,
381–383, slaves in, 295, Span. gov-
ernors' author. adopted by U. S., 180,
Span. officials temp. retained, 179,
subscribers from, recoma. DuVal as
govr., 371-372, U. S. citizens of,
approve seizure of archives, 346;
estab. of courts and jud. dists. dis-
cussed, 160, 236–237; exploration de-
sired, 27; Fenwick in comma. troops
in, 117; flour store (St. Augustine):
assigned to milit. author., 286, oc-
cupied by troops, 246, proposed re-
moval of hospital to, 219, recomd. as
hospital, 204; Jackson appd. and
comma. govr., 9–11; land (E. Fla.):
depreds. on timber on pub., 370, 372,
373, 374, 375–376, 377–379, loc. of
good, 233, right of Brit. subjects to
dispose of, after cession to Spain, 399;
oper. of foreign wreckers on coast of,
282; payt. to claimants under, dis-
cussed, 560; peninsula unexplored
(1821), 233; petitions of citizens for:
confirm. of land claims, 290–292,
296–298, estab. pub. educ., 308–311,
estab. terr. capital, 348–350, rept. re
affairs in, 259; signers of petitions
and memorials from, 287–290, 292,
297–298, 314–315, 321–323, 349—350;
prelim. organiz. of, 54–57; Pres.
appts. Jackson govr., 9–11; pro-
vision for govt. of, to be made, 16;
recomds. for appts. in, 3, 4–5; Span.
archives (E. Fla.): acct. by Bell of
seizure, 345–346, discussed, 36–37,
disposal discussed, 419–420, dispute
re ownership, 116, Forbes ordered to
fwd. acct. as rec., 333, Jackson's ex-
plan. of seizure, 335–343, possession
discussed, 97, reten. by U. S. dis-
cussed, 87, seized, 238–239, seizure by
Worthington discussed, 365, to be
recd. by Cross, 85, transfer discussed,
344; Span. div. retained, 55; superior
judges (E. Fla.): changes in, 383,
DuVal appd. as, 4 n., 42–43; temp.
organ. completed, 274, 275; under
temp. govt. an exception to rule re
interfer. of Pres. in civil suits, 268;
U. S. laws extended to, 7; West Flor-
ida: condition during transition pe-
riod, 150, co. cts. estabd. in, 168,
estab. of courts, 160, 236–237, incum-
bents of offices to take oath of alleg.
to U. S., 168, Indians spread over part
of, 232, list of officers appa. by Pres.
delivered to Worthington, 178, loc.
of good land in, 233, no disorders in,
265, offices filled by Jackson, 168,
Span. customs and law in, retained
during temp. govt., 151, Span. tax
system retained by Jackson, 158;
West Florida, union with Ala.: in-
habs. oppose, 234, Jackson believes,
would result from perm. div. of Fla.,
234, memorial against, 312–315, me-
morial for, 320–323, part w. of Apala-
chicola r. proposed for, 307-308,
recoma., 540; Worthington (secy. and
act. govr., E. Fla.): absence of, 166,
appts. minor officials, 134, arrival of,
175, continues until further orders,
369, expense accts., 380, organizes
govt., 193–196, to send all repts. to
Jackson's office, 231. See also East
Florida (occupancy and temp. ad-
min.); Florida Territory (under perm.
govt.); West Florida (occupancy and
temp. admin.).
Florida Territory v. Raoul and Lepine
Coulons, args. for and against quash-
ing indicts., 888.
Florida Territory v. Lepine and Raoul
Coulons, and Grand-Pre, evid. in case
of, 884–891.
Floridian, change of name, 920; com-
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1030 I N DE X
Fontane, Pablo F., petit juror, 798, 962;
signer, 704, 762, 764, 986.
Fontane, R. D., petit juror, 799; signer,
367, 764.
Forbes, James Grant (U.S. agt. to capt.
genl. of Cuba), appd. to arrange
evacu. of the Floridas, 11–12, 13;
arrives in Pensacola from Havana,
70, 71, 89; brings order from capt.
genl. of Cuba re transfer of Fla., 70–
71; Callava waives order from Havana
to surrender W. Fla. to, 141; certif. of
appt. ment., 12; corresp. betw., and
Mahy ment., 344; credentials pre-
sented to Mahy, 96; criticized by
Callava, 84–85; date of: arrival in
Havana, 64, 94 n., cessation of com-
pens. as agt. to Havana, 484, sailing
from Havana for Pensacola, 100;
describes negots. with Mahy, 93–97;
draws on Sec. State for compens., 271;
embarks on Revenge without Jackson's
consent, 146; encls. St. Augustine
newspaper to Sec. State, 186; explan.
demanded of, re arrange. with Mahy,
89–90; heir of, lot holder, 762; holds
order from Callava to rec. W. Fla.,
141; informs Jackson of his return to
Pensacola, 64–65; instrs. ment. to,
34; instrs. to, 11–12, 13; interview
with Jackson, 117–118; Jackson to
await inform. from, before occup. of
Pensacola, 28; letters ment. to: Callava,
93, Jackson, 89, 93, 140,141, 146, Sec.
State, 69, 89, 93, 95, 136, 171, 343;
letters to: Jackson, 83–84, 95–96, Sec.
State, 64–65, 93–95, 117–119, 136,
171, 384; letters to, from: Brent, 213–
214, Jackson, 89–90, Mahy, 96–97,
Sec. State, 11–12; list of docs. carried
to Cuba by, 12, 15, 16; non-arrival
at Jackson's hadrs., 38; pay as U. S.
agt. in Cuba, 12; recs. orders for de-
livery of the Floridas, 100; rept. by,
to Sec. State re conditions in St.
Augustine, 136; repts. arrival of
Worthington, 171; solicits passage to
St. Augustine, 146; sources remission
to Havana, 69 n.
Forbes, James Grant (mayor St. Au-
gustine), acct. of, 596; acct, suspended
for lack of vouchers, 596 n.; alleged
pens. for print. laws to be pd. to
Hunt, 920; grand jury present. publd.
in, 788 n.; notices of recomds. to legis.
council publd. in, 803, 804; publ. of
U. S. laws in, recomd., 682; rept. on
actions of Brackenridge publd.in,875;
sale of, 920; terr. laws printed in, 743.
Flournoy, Brig. Gen. Thomas, query re
retention of corresp. of, with Estrado
and Kindelan, 745; recomd. as govr.,
10 n.
Floyd, Davis, absence in Indiana, 966;
absent from land bal., 731; appd. and
comma. land commr., E. Fla. dist.,
656, 805–806; charged with represent.
land claimants in ct., 949; comm. as
land commr. fund. to, 805 n.; corresp.
with Hamilton cited, 948; date of
arrival in Fla., 656 n.; extract of let.
to Hamilton, 830; Hamilton's dis-
agree. with, as land commr., 945–949;
in Burr conspiracy, 656 n.; let. ment.
to Hamilton, 825; let. to, from Ham-
ilton, 825–830; motion discussed re:
appt. of asst. secy. to land bol., 946–
947, transls. of Span. docs., 947; note
re, 656; opinion awaited re transf.
archs. to land commrs., 759. See also
Hamilton, Alexander, and Floyd.
Floyd, John, awarded mail contract, St.
Marys-St. Augustine, 487 n., 767 n.,
let. ment. to PMG, 900; let. to, from
PMG, 900; offer to, for mail transp.
Jefferson, Ga.-St. Augustine, 900;
takes naturaliz. oath, 434.
Folch (Foulk) y Juan, Gov. Vizente,
conduct re Ellicott and Hawkins, 149,
159; note re, 149.
Folks, Joseph, signer, 292.
Follis, Arbene (Erbena), grand juror,
798.
Folsom (Folson), Young W., petit juror,
614 n.; witness, 614 n.
Fonda, Christopher Y., grand juror, 613
n.; petit juror, 613 n.
Fontane, John, appd. dep. police officer,
St. Augustine, 120.
Fontane, John D., signer, 530.
Fontane, John M., 962; petit juror, 798,
962; signer, 371, 448, 450, 530, facing
702, 704, 760, 764, 985.
Fontané, Pablo, signer, facing 702.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1031
influence with Worthington, 298; anx-
ious for settle. of accts., 511; appa.
mayor, 194; appts. comm. to evaluate
pub. blags., 192 n.; assigned space in
govt. house, 500; certif. as mayor,
597; dispute with Bell, 245, 246;
encla.: certif. of acct. as mayor, 595,
resol. city council to Sec. State, 511;
letters ment. to: Sec. State, 213, 214,
Worthington, 192 n., 249, 500; letters
to: Maury, 595, Sec. State, 271, 511,
Worthington, 227–228; ment., 358;
recomd. as member legis. council, 423
n.; returns to N. Y. from Fla., 595;
signer, 333, 349, 401, 530; signs city
council resol., 218; unable to visit
Washington acct. health, 595; visits
Washington, 668.
Forbes, James Grant (recr. of Span.
archives), aids in seizure of Span.
archs., 239; appd. commr. to receive
archs., 12, 362, 593,667; duties ceased
with appt. as U. S. marshal, 271 n.,
333; letters to: Maury, 541, Worthing-
ton, 419; letter to, from Maury, 333;
ordered to fund. acct. for compens. as
agt. to rec. E. Fla. archs., 333; pres-
ents joint acct. of commrs. for taking
possess. of E. Fla. archs., 541; recs.
compens. for service as commr. to
seize Span. archs., 674.
Forbes, James Grant (U. S. Marshal),
accepts appt. as U. S. Marshal, 46 n.;
acct. of S. Walker as court crier, 596;
accts. for: attend. sup. ct. as marshal,
596, summon. of jury. 596; acts in
capacity of U. S. marshal and commr.
on archs., 419; amt. of bal. due to,
as marshal and drawn for, 370; appd.
and commd., 45–46, 51, 134–135, 169,
333; appts. dep. marshal at Pensacola,
271; assures he will arrest the prog.
of timber thieves, 376; begin. of serv-
ice, 484; comm. sent to, 46 n.; copy
of comm. delivered to Worthington,
178; expense of trip to Black r. and
parts of St. Johns r. to detect wood
cutters, 596; few fees recd., 356; laws
U. S. foºd. to, 370; letters ment. to:
Maury, 484, 511, 511 n., Worthing-
ton, 374; letters to: Maury, 511, Sec.
State, 370, Worthington, 376; letters
to, from: Maury, 484, Worthington,
375–376, 377; ment., 383; nativity,
356; oath of naturaliz. taken before,
435; ordered to: arrange trial in appeal
case, 439, discover facts re illegal cut.
of timber, 375–376, fyd. accts., 484,
rept. re wreckers, 377; present in St.
Augustine, 115; query re scope of
duties, 118; recept. of, in St. Au-
gustine, 118; repts. expenses acct.
dist. ct., 370; repts. by re: action on
papers of Entralgo and Arredondo,
419, timber depreds., 376, 384; re-
sided in N. Y., 356; salary and fees,
356 n.; surety of Simon, 793; tenure,
45–46; text of acct. against U. S., 596.
Forbes, John, and Company, char. of
land in claim of, 848; grant to, ment.,
465; grant to, discussed, 518–519;
Indian grant to, 211 n.; ment., 184
n.; proposed Indian reserve infringes
on grant to, 211; white settlers on
grant fear result of treaty with
Seminoles, 579.
Ford, John, signer, 477.
Forhachtimico,
Indian chief, meets
Wright at St. Marks, 578.
Forrester, Samuel K., signer, 321.
Forsyth, James,
accused of import.
slaves into Pensacola, 740; contract
with, for the Thomas Shields, 835 m.;
in command of the Thomas Shields,
740, 742, 876, 915, 916; suit against,
urged on Steele, 740.
Forsyth, John, U. S. Minister to Spain,
characterized, 6 n.
Forsyth, L., recoma. as survn. pub.
lands, 943 n.
Fort Barrancas, commander refuses to
hold civil prisoner, 788; note re, 92.
See also Barrancas.
Fort Claiborne (Ala.), direct rd. to
Fort Crawford
Pensacola, 698.
(Ala.), on proposed
Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell rd., 856.
Fort Crawford (Ga.), proposed Pensa-
cola-St. Augustine rd. to pass thru,
606, 608; provisions for troops open.
rd. to be deposited at, 609.
Fort Gadsden, erect. and loc. of, 20 m.;
garrison to occupy St. Marks, 53,
109; order for relief of, cancelled, 33;
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1032
I N DE X
justices Escambia Co. ct. for add.
compens., 493.
Foster, John B., petit juror, 613 n.;
signs for G. C. Todd, 611; testimony
in Gerrish assault case, 885; witness,
614 n.; witness before grand jury, 888.
Foster, Capt. Winslow, captures sloop
Sailor's Rights, 405; commands cutter
Alabama, 199 n., 405.
Fourth Infantry, Brooke commands in
Fla., 21 n.; Butler appd. col. of, 56;
detach. of, to escort Gadsden, 794;
encamped at Camp Hope, 538; gar-
risons Ft. Barrancas, 788; hdqrs. at
Cant. Clinch, 784; jailers at Pensa-
cola, 448; movement to Tampa Bay
recoma., 720; officers recomd. King
for govr., 469 m.; to occupy Fla. forts,
20, 108; reaches Camp Manuels, 92;
to occupy post at Tampa Bay, 784.
France, brigs from, land cargoes on St.
Johns r., 24; Gay native of, 356, 358;
Menard native of, 361; ment., 412.
Francis (Hillis Hajo), Indian prophet,
followers of, at: Coosa river, 463,
Lo-Walla village, 463; note re, 226.
Francis, William, signer, 761.
Francis, William (Wiliam), signer, 298.
Francisco, a slave, 324.
Franklin, a brig, ships timber to Phil.,
583.
Fraziers, see Taitsville.
French inhabitants, circular to, in St.
Augustine, 194.
Frink, William, grand juror, 933.
Fromentin, Judge Eligius, amt. salary
pd. to, 348 m.; appd. and commd.
judge, 42 n., 51, 55, 160, 173, 242;
appd. pres. New Orleans college, 317-
318; appt. of dep, marshal urged by,
175; asked to bear memorial to Cong.,
311; atty. genl. approves contin. in
office, 254–256; atty. genl. holds Jack-
son in error re treatment of, 256:
auth. to issue writ queried, 242, 243;
arrives in Pensacola, 42 n.; bar op-
poses confirming, 243; changes plan
to visit Washington, 347; comm.
superseded, 36; corresp. with Jackson:
called for in Cong., 350–351, fund. to
Sec. State, 275; dispute with Jackson,
174, 250–257; exhibits comm. (1819)
orders to abandon, 53; recoma. as
site for Indian agcy., 410; to be
evacuated, 109; troops from, occupy
St. Marks, 33, 101, 140; U. S. troops
to be moved from, 20.
Fort George, built by British and re-
named Ft. St. Michael, 319 n. See
Ft. St. Michael.
Fort Hawkins (Ga.), ment., 579; postal
schedule to Pensacola, 487.
Fort Maria Sanchez, under U. S. army
control, 201.
Fort Marion, name given to fortress of
St. Augustine, 63 n.
Fort Mitchell (Ala.), descrip. of route
to Pensacola, 855; distance to Ft.
St. Marks, 223; estab. of express to
Ft. St. Marks, 223–224; mail route
from Pensacola to be survd., 737;
ment., 57.9; open. rd. to Pensacola
recomd., 698; oper. begins to open rd.
to Pensacola, 968; proposed mail
route to, 766–767; rq. from Pensacola
to be opened, 924.
Fort Scott, Arbuckle's regt. leaves, 223;
Indians settle w. of, 464.
Fort St. Marks, distance to Ft. Mitchell,
223; DuVal requests detail of troops
be sent to, 928; estab. of express to
Ft. Mitchell, 223–224. See also St.
Marks.
Fort St. Marks (St. Augustine), aparts.
in, recoma. as temp. city prison, 645;
assigned to milit. auth., 286; Bell
commands at, 215; city council de-
sires use of, as jail, 511; ment., 115,
217; troop withdrawal from, advised,
218; used as prison by Span. govt.,
511.
Fort St. Michael, within Pensacola
bounds., 319.
Fort St. Phillips, within Pensacola
bounds., 319.
Fortifications, discussion of transfer of,
31; in Fla. ceded to U. S., 23; query
by Butler re E. Fla., 62.
Foster, Charles G., grand juror, 613 m.;
petit juror, 613 n.; signer, 288, 323.
Foster, Edward B., appd. justice Escam-
bia Co. ct., 480, 662; appd. j. p.,
Pensacola, 132; note re, 132 n.;
signer, 289, 318, 480; signs memorial
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X 1033
Gadsden, James, acquires small vessel
for use in explor., 842; anxiety of
Jackson re arrival in St. Augustine
with official papers, 158; appa. and
comma. to legis. council, 913; authd.:
as Jackson's agt. in Pensacola, 143,
by Jackson to meet Callava, 82, to re-
move upper Seminole reserv. line
farther n., 783; author. as special agt.
transfol. to Call, 140; bill drawn by,
to be pd., 818; Brooke confers with,
re estab. of milit. post, 842; carries:
lets. and docs. to St. Augustine, 146,
lets. from Jackson to Callava, 74, 143,
official papers re occup. E. Fla., 98,
ordinances to St. Augustine, 157;
commends Brooke for rapid transf.
troops to Tampa Bay, 843; commr. to
run Seminole bound.: accepts appt.,
659 n., advises DuVal on status, 940
n., appt. approved by Pres., 782, 783,
appt. approved by Sec. War, 778, 779,
comments, 752, compens., 784, com-
pletes w. line, 850, difficulties, 842,
draws bill for expenses, 907, DuVal
recomds. appt., 779, 783, leaves St.
Augustine to execute mission, 802,
leaves s. bound. open, 850, signs rept.,
751, prelim. plans, 794, rejects Sem-
inole objections, 795, requested to
serve, 752, requests milit. guard, 696,
to make change in w. bound., 850, to
return to St. Augustine on comple-
tion, 850; comm. to, ment. re recep-
tion of St. Marks, 140 n.; concern re
compens. for members survey party,
794; confers with Callava, 77–78;
confid. agt. of Jackson at Pensacola,
140; date of: arrival at St. Augustine,
115, arrival at Tampa Bay, 842,
leaving Pensacola for St. Augustine,
98 n.; delay enroute to St. Augustine,
98; delivers Jackson's procl. to Butler,
113, 115; draws bill in favor of
Pindar, 851; erects Ft. Gadsden, 20
n.; explores area near Tampa Bay,
844; expresses hope Brooke will be
approved as name of cantonment,
843; fails to meet DuVal and Hum-
phreys, 970; instrs. to, re occup. St.
Marks, 53 m.; instrs. to secy. E. Fla.
sent thru, 135; Jackson communicates
to rec. Fla. and its archives, 36;
former U. S. Senator, 161; fVds.
packet to Sec. State, 175; instrs.
ment. to, 260; illegal applic. by, of
habeas corpus, 250–253; interview
with Jackson, 188; Jackson's opinion
re, 160–161; lets. ment. to Sec. State,
262; letters to Sec. State, 173–175,
184–189; letters to Sec. State fwd.
to Pres., 262; let. to, from Sec. State,
262—263; meets Jackson in New Or-
leans, 36; nativity, 161; note re, 36;
moves to New Orleans, 347 n., op-
poses Jackson in Callava affair, 276;
plans call. of grand jury, 347–348;
powers restricted by act of 1821, 251–
253; prepares and issues habeas corpus
writ for release of Callava, 185–187;
query re nomin., 243; quiescent, 299;
rarely seen out of house, 306; reappt.
opposed, 183; refuses to hear piracy
case, 293; restricted juris. of, 260,
262—263; salary ment., 494; ships
household goods to New Orleans, 347;
source of auth. for issuing habeas
corpus writ by, 252; takes oath before
Jackson, 174; to enforce only U. S.
laws, 260; Winder to rec. pay of,
347 n.
Fry, Samuel, acct. settled, 514; alleged
applicant for appt. U. S. atty., 832;
appd. and comma. member legis.
council, 640 m.; criticised by White,
832–833; encls. acct. to Sec. State for
services as secy. to Walton, 478; ex-
pelled from bar sup. ct., 832; let. to
Sec. State, 478; member legis. council,
478 m.; paid for service to Walton, 478
n.; recoma. for appt. to legis. council,
682, 803, 859; signer, 183, 318, 481;
tenure as private secy. to Walton, 478
n.; visits Washington, 832; witness,
614 n.
Fucha, Pedro, signer, facing 702, 704,
762.
Fulton, Jesse, signer, 292.
Fulton, William S., recomd. for office,
3 n.
Fulton, a steamship, DuVal embarks on,
at New Orleans, 649.
Furlon, M. H., signer, 322.
Furman, Richard P., signer, 986.
For identical names, see indea: note, p. 988



1034
I N D E X
ideas re Indian negot., 720; joins
Jackson at Montpelier, 140; leaves
Tampa Bay, 845; letters ment. to:
commanding officer, Pensacola, 794,
DuVal, 922, 970, Humphreys, 817,
Jackson, 144, Sec. War, 694, 712, 795,
817, 850, 968; lets. re Seminole
treaty sent to Pres., 778, 779; letters
to: Callava, 77–78, Sec. War, 694–
696, 752–754, 794, 795–796, 802—803,
841–843, 850–851, 902, 905–907, 968–
971; letters to, from: Callava, 82–83,
Sec. War, 712–713, 783–784, 817–818;
mode of travel to St. Augustine, 146;
note re, 41; opinions re: ability of
reserv. to support Seminoles, 968–969,
land reserved for Seminoles, 922;
orders to Butler sent thru, 165;
recomd. for: legis. council, 859, survir.
pub. lands, 943 n.; recomás.: add.
hospital store and surgeon for Cant.
Brooke, 842—843, begin. work at both
ends of St. Augustine-Pensacola rd.,
902, Cant. Brooke as name of army
encamp., 845, early execu. of Indian
treaty, 753, estab. milit. post near
Seminole reserv., 696, exten. n. bound.
Seminole reserv., 841–842, milit. force
near scene of Indian removal, 940 n.,
milit. post at Tampa Bay, 696, 752,
753, Simmons for legis. council, 913
n., small vessel for Cant. Brooke to
communicate with Pensacola, 843,
supply of Seminoles with tools and
rations, 940 n., use of troops on St.
Augustine end of rā. to Pensacola,
902; reports by, re: char. of part of
Seminole reserv., 841, div. among
Fla. Indians re object of treaty, 695–
696, estab. Seminole bound. line, 968–
971, prog. in mark. Seminole reserve,
842, Seminole chiefs object to mark.
bound. line, 795, survey bound. Sem-
inole reserv., 905–907; repts. some
tribes who prefer to move w. of Miss.
r., 695; resigns comm. to legis. coun-
cil, 913 n.; sent to St. Augustine with
orders for Butler, 98; suggests: Brooke
meet with, at Tampa Bay, 802 n.,
favor. points for Seminoles to settle
in reserv., 940 n., move of naval ves-
sels along w. coast of Fla., 796, 802;
supplies DuVal with inform. re re-
moval of Seminoles to reserv., 940 n.;
takes bills to New Orleans to negot.,
41–42; takes Jackson's procl. to St.
Augustine, 113; to be consulted re:
loc. troops near Tampa Bay, 784, site
of milit. post near Tampa Bay, 784;
to run out Seminole reserv. on
complet. of survey, 818; urges: early
occup. Tampa Bay by troops, 795–
796, 802, extra compens. to Ripley,
796. See also Adjutant General.
Gadsden, James, and Segui, appd.
commrs. to treat with Indians, 659;
consult Seminole chiefs re date of
treaty negots., 694; instrs. to, re
treaty negots., 659–661; let. to, from
Sec. War, 659–661. See also Segui,
Bernardo.
Gadsden County, Robinson resid. of,
859; seat of terr. govt. located in,
854–855.
Gage, Capt. Edmund, case against for
viol. law re slave trade, 980; in com-
mand of Cygnet, solicits relief from
prosecu., 980.
Gagmet (Gagmett), Louis (Luis), petit
juror, 613 n.; signer, 289, 309, 314,
625.
Gagnet, Joseph, signer, 310, 315.
Gaillard, Sen. John, of S. C., pres. pro
temp. of Senate, signs acts, 8, 399,
428, 639.
Gaillard, Lt. William Warren, death of,
538 n.
Gainer, Jesse, signer, 322.
Gaines, Brig. Gen. Edmund P., arrival
in Pensacola, 348; defines scope of
Fenwick's command, 117; in rel. to
appt. to occupy St. Augustine and E.
Fla.: desigd. to lead occup. force, 28,
402, instrs. ment. re, 70, other duties
prevent accepting appt., 20, 31 n., 32,
34, Pres. recomds. to lead occup.
force, 14, 16; instrs. to honor requisi-
tions from civil auth., 402; let. to
Fenwick, 117; ment., 163, 403; or-
dered to relieve Ft. Gadsden, 33; or-
dered to use milit. force to preserve
timber on pub. lands, 674–675; orders
express estabd. from Ft. St. Marks to
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1035
Ft. Mitchell, 223; retained in army,
21 n.; to sail for St. Marks, 348.
Gaines, Brig. Gen. Edmund P., and
Scott, let. to, from Act. Adjt. Genl.,
674–675.
Gaither (Geather), Greenbury, accts.
presented for settle., 566, 567; affid.
ment. re service, 567; appd.: judge,
St. Johns Co. dist. ct., 357, 449 n.,
member legis. council, 423 n., 449 n.,
temp. U. S. atty., E. Fla., 300, 356,
647; appt. to legis. council opposed by
terr. deleg., 623; atty. in St. Augus-
tine, 679; cand. for appt. as land
commr., 429 n.; comm. to legis. coun-
cil recd., 489; compens. as: judge,
357 n., 449 n., 661, legis. councilor,
449 n., U. S. atty., 356 n.; mamber
first legis. council, 679; mileage acct.
as member legis. council pa., 630; na-
tivity, 356, 357; owns no land in Fla.,
679; pay for services, 615; recoma. as:
land commr., 300, 679–680, member
legis. council, 407, 448–449, U. S.
atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 414 n.; resigns as
judge, 357; sails from St. Augustine to
Pensacola, 489; signer, 350, 367, 371,
401, 529; succeeds Bird as dist. atty.,
356; tenure as member legis. council,
449 n.; to leave Ky. for Fla., 567.
Gallaher, Charles, petit juror, 613 n.;
signer, 289; witness, 614 n.
Galt, Lt. Patrick H., let. to, from
Erving, 725–726.
Galvez Spring, U. S. troops: encamp at,
108, ordered to, 147, 148.
Garcia, Benito, signer, 289, 310, 314.
Garcia, Cayetano (Cagetano), signer,
289, 309, 314.
Garcia, Yfiigo, signer, 289, 309, 314, 625.
Gardner (Gardiner), Daniel S., signer,
449, 858.
Gardner (Gardiner), Lewis, grand juror,
963 n.; takes naturaliz. oath, 435.
Garetta, Juan, signer, 289.
Garey (Geary), John Y., petit juror,
798, 962; signer, 858.
Garey, Samuel, appd. issuing agt. on
St. Johns r., 940 n.
Garey (Geary), Samuel Y., grand juror,
797.
Garnier, John W., acct. not allowed, 573;
applies for appt., 132 n.; appa.:
auctioneer, Pensacola, 131 n., justice,
Escambia co. ct., 480, justice of peace
and quorum, Pensacola, 132; claim
for compens. discussed, 618; draft not
honored pending receipt of proofs,
642; draws draft on State Dept. in
favor of Barkley, 642; fVds. new
state. re claims for compens., 661;
instrs. to, re filing acct. for services,
619; letters ment. to: Barkley, 618,
Maury, 618, 642, Sec. State, 618;
letters to: Maury, 618, 661, Sec. State,
573; letters to, from Maury, 618–619,
642; petit juror, 612; recs. pay for
claims, 663 m.; recomd. of, 132 n.;
signer, 318, 322, 480; signs: acct. for
services, 574, memorial justices Es-
cambia Co. ct. for add. compens., 493;
solicits pay for services as justice,
Escambia Co. ct., 573; state. of
services, 574; takes oath of office
before Shannon, 663 n.
Garrio, Francisco, signer, 309, 314.
Garzon, Sebastian, signer, 310, 315.
Gavin, Patrick, signer, 287, 288, 323.
Gay, Antelme (Anselm; Anselmo; An-
telmo), appa.: alderman, St. Augus-
tine, 194 n., clk. to comm. to rec. E.
Fla. archs., 362, 593, member bil. of
pilotage, St. Augustine, 121, to
investig. St. Augustine city archs.,
175, 176–177; characterized, 593–594;
claim for compens. as clk. to archs.
commrs., 520, 646; comm. to inspect
St. Augustine archs., 176–177; critical
of Worthington, 520; discharged as
clk. to archs. commrs., 593; interpre-
ter and translator, 360; letters ment.
to: Maury, 520, Worthington, 594;
nativity, 356, 358, 360; naturalized,
434, 594; pay for services connected
with Span. archs. and docs., 356
n.; petit juror, 799; recs. fees as
interpreter, 356; resigns as alderman,
358; service discussed, 593–594;
signer, 349, 762, 986; succeeds Beth-
une as secy. archs. comm., 593;
tenure and pay as clk. archs. comm.,
593.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1036 I N D E X
Geanople (Geanopoly), George, petit
juror, 962.
Geddes, George W., of S. C., agt. of J.
Geddes, arrives at Key West, 382 n.
Geddes, John, former govr., S. C., 382–
383; friend of Coppinger, 383;
recomds. Strong as member legis.
council, 423 n.; sale of Key West to,
382, 452; suit of Simonton against,
382 n., 462.
Geiger, John, petit juror, 961, 963 n.;
signer, 367, 371, 450, 761, 858.
General Call, schooner, ships sub. stores
from New Orleans to Pensacola, 916.
General Courts Martial, Bell tried by,
409.
General Phipps, Brit. vessel, DuBose
confers with capt. and owner, 685.
Generino, Ynes, signer, 761.
Gennings, Gillam G., signer, 322.
Georgetown (D. C.), 871.
Georgia (State), advantages to, of ab-
sence of port of entry in E. Fla., 815;
area on s. border suggested for Indian
reserve, 211; Barnett from, 869; Bird
appd. U. S. atty. from, 48,49, 51, 356;
case of escaped slave in St. Augustine,
118; Cong. deleg. supports Steele's
appt. as U. S. atty., 590 n., 867;
Dawson native of, 358; direct post
route to Fla. essential, 366; elec. in,
259; fug. from E. Fla. taken in, 432;
fug. slaves from, 136, 762; Gibson
native of, 358; inhabs. would object
to return of Creeks, 41; Jackson urges
return of Fla. Creeks to, 58, 206;
Jenkins from, 283; judges sup. ct.
recoma. Steele as U. S. atty., 590 n.;
legis. recomds. Steele as U. S. atty.,
590 n.; ment., 232, 461, 465; no land
communic, with Fla., 571; Penn
resided in, 357; plan to unite Semi-
noles with Creeks opposed by inhabs.
of, 508; post route authd. to St.
Augustine, 367 n., Reynolds leaves
for, 567; rid. to St. Augustine crosses
St. Johns r. at Jacksonville, 477; St.
Augustine-Pensacola rq. runs thru,
522; Seminole removal to, discussed,
533–534; Steele appa. U. S. atty.
from, 589,862; Steele's legal pract. in,
952, 974; union of E. Fla. with,
possible, 234; use of bank paper, 923;
volunteers from, 745; Walton native
of, 5, 43.
Gerrish, Paul H., affid. re assault on,
886–887; indicted for riot, 896; store-
keeper, Pensacola, 885, 886; victim of
assault, 884–889, 896.
Gianople (Gianopoly), John (Juan),
signer, facing 702, 704, 761.
Gianople, Manuel, signer, 858.
Gibbs, George, acct. for services as judge
of elec., 714, 715; acts for Hackley as
inspect. of customs, 360; appa.: act.
prosec. atty., St. Johns Co., 195,
inspect. customs, 52 n., temp. coll.
customs, 121, 124; clk., St. Johns Co.
ct., 357; fees as clk., 357; last from
N. Y., 360; let. to Maury, 714; mem-
ber ba. of pilotage, 360; ment., 443;
nativity, 357, 360; occupies room in
custom house as office, 307; resid.
N. C., 360; signer, 448, 450, 530.
Gibbs, George K., death of, 360; sur-
veyor, 360.
Gibbs, T. C., bill drawn in favor of, 907.
Gibbs and Tingle, claim for compens.,
688; directed to take possess. of archs.,
688.
Gibson, E. B., signer, 986.
Gibson, Dr. Edward R., alderman, St.
Augustine, 358; appa.: judge co, ct.,
438, 443, member legis. council, 640–
641; failed to act as co. judge, 438;
nativity, 358; non-arrival as member
of legis. council, 490; petit juror, 799;
recomá.: as agt. to admin. E. Fla.
archs., 965, by Drysdale and Rodman,
441, for legis. council, 616; resigns as
co. judge, 441, 443; signer, 448, 530,
566, 858.
Gibson, William M., appd. and commd.
member legis. council, 423, 461;
absent from legis. sess., 682; declines
appt. as alderman, St. Augustine, 358;
nativity, 358; recoma. as: member
legis. council, 407, U. S. atty., E.
Fla., 300; signer, 371; tenure as
councilor, 423.
Gilbert, Jephtha, grand juror, 614 n.,
790, 888; signer, 298, 322, 893.
Gilbert, Robert, petit juror, 963 n.
For identical names, see indea: note, p. 988



I N D E X
1037
Gilstrap, —, murdered by Bowles and
others, 503.
Gindrat, John, recoma. as p.m., Pensa-
cola, 4 n.
Ginright, Isaac, grand juror, 614 n.
Gipsy (Gipsey), enters St. Johns r. to
load timber, 407,408; notice given to,
407, 408.
Giraldo, Antonio, petit jurror, 962;
signer, 448, facing 702; suit against,
by U. S., 66 n.
Gobert, Carlos, signer, 350.
Gobert, Charles, interpreter and trans-
lator, 360; nativity, 360; suit against,
by U. S., 66 n.
Gordon, Adam, signer, 183, 289, 321,
481.
Gordon, Alexander, signer, 321.
Gormley, William, signer, 290.
Gonnyoa (?), Francisco, signer, 290.
Goff, Thomas, witness, 937 n.
Gomez, Brigida, signer, 762.
Gomez, Domingo, signer, 309, 314.
Gomez, Eusebius (Eusebio) M., charges
against Hamilton discussed, 708, 709;
depos. by, facing 702; depos. cited re
Hamilton, 693 n.; Hamilton sues for
libel and conspiracy, 710; opponent of
Hamilton, 716–717.
Gomez (Gomes), Francisco, petit juror,
613 n.; signer, 289, 309.
Gomez, John N., claim to Crosby
estate opposed by Hamilton, 709;
clergyman at St. Augustine, fac-
ing 702.
Gomez, Jose, signer, 288.
Gomez, Juan, signer, 310,315.
Gomez, Silvestre, signer, 288, 309, 314.
Gomez, -, excused as juror, 717;
limited knowl. of English, 717.
Gonzales, Celestino, petit juror, 613 n.;
signer, 289, 311, 315,625.
Gonzales, Fran, signer, 760.
Gonzales, Joseph, signer, 289.
Gonzales, Juan E., signer, 761.
Gonzales, Manuel (Emanuel), appd.
j. p., Pensacola, 132; Jackson moves
to house of, 143; legis. council ad-
journs to house of, 557; signer, 289,
309, 314; temp. capital at house of,
533, 534, 537. See also Camp Manuels.
Gonazlez, Domingo, signer, 310, 315.
Gonzalez, Juan (John), Jr., petit juror,
800.
Gonzalez, Juan F., signer, 371, 704, 761.
Goubit, —, signer, 288.
Gould, Elias B., accepts author. to
publ. U. S. laws, 585; acct. for:
advert. elec., 714, 715, print. legis.
acts to be pd., 786–787; agt. of J.
Black, 961; bill discussed for print.
U. S. laws, 728; draft to, in payt. of
print. bill, 728; estab. E. Fla. Herald
by, 530; grand juror, 961; letters
ment. to: Maury, 728, Sec. State,
786; lets. to Sec. State, 530–531,
585; letters to, from: Brent, 699,
Maury, 728, 786–787; note re, 530 n.;
ordered to: render new acct. for print.,
699, submit copy of printed set of
laws, 699; recomas. W. Smith as
U. S. marshal, 531; signer, 530;
solicits appt. to print U. S. laws,
530; to send his newspapers to Sec.
State, 585; witness to sig., 961.
Goulindo, Nicholas, held on trial in
St. Augustine for murder committed
at Key Vacas, 821.
Gourlay, James W., signer, 323.
Gouverneur (Gouvernier), Samuel L.,
goes to N. Y., 242; ment., 258; secy.
and son-in-law to Pres., 242 n.
Government house (Pensacola), blógs.
near, occupied by Span. troops, 557;
civil author. could demand and rec.
for civilian use, 483; cond. of, 153,
155, 162; delivered to civil author.,
600, 683; if needed for troops, govt.
should rent offices for civil use, 472;
loc. convenient for pub., 985; needed
for civil govt., 470, 472; unfit for use
when delivered to civil auths., 664;
used by: courts of justice, 664, officers
and troops, 482.
Government house (St. Augustine),
adapted for sup. ct. and other pub.
offices, 483; act. govr. entitled to
occupy, 304, 306; dist. ct. moves to,
301; DuVal orders, used for courts,
legis. council, and land commrs.,
732; expense of repairs, 380; recoma.
for repair and use as state house,
202–203; required for civil purposes,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1038
I N DE X
884, 885; let. ment. to Sec. State, 863;
lets. to Sec. State, 810–811, 863–864;
signer, 289, 310, 315.
Gravelly Hill, grand jurors from, 822.
Gray, John T., recomas. Luckett as land
commr., 849 n.
Great Bahama Island, fug. slaves on,
745.
Great Britain, builds barracks at Pensa-
cola, 153; cession of Fla. to Spain dis-
cussed, 105, 399–400; effect of Fla.
cession to Spain on Brit. land grants,
825; Indians believe U.S. to war with,
919; land claims of former subjects:
deter settlers, 572, extingd. by Span.,
572, not recognized by U. S., 572 n.;
land commrs. to ignore claims based
on grants by, 427; land grants in Fla.,
827; ment., 387, 412; schooner from,
unloads goods on St. Johns r., 24;
statutes re compens. to Brit. cits. on
leaving Fla., 485; treaty (1783) with
Spain: ment., 68, needed by land
commrs., 483; opened King's rd. from
St. Augustine into Ga., 523.
Greeffin, Edward, signer, 289.
Green, John, amt. compens. due, 963.
Green, John W., appd. commr. re claims
against Spain, 8 n.
Green, –, recomd. as member legis.
council, 490.
Green Bay (Mich. Terr.), ment., 473.
Gregory, Lt. Comdr. Francis H., let. to
Porter, 7.19; proceeds to Key Vaca,
719; rept. by, re foreign vessels in
Fla. Keys, 719; supplies Lt. Rogers on
Key Vaca, 719.
Grouper fish, found near Cape Sable,
382; sold in Havana, 382.
Guadarrama, Cizila, signer, 761.
Guard House (St. Augustine), assigned
to civil author., 286.
Gué, Francis, grand juror, 961; signer.
566, facing 702, 704, 761, 858.
Guerol, Anthony J., signer, 309, 314.
Guibert, Lewis, petit juror, 799, 963.
Guillemard, Arnaldo, Span. officer, ar-
rested and confined by Walton, 347 n.,
369, 403–404; order sent to Walton to
free from custody, 368, 369; signer,
625.
245, 272-274; Worthington removes
to, 301.
Graham, John, signer, 323.
Graham, -, ment. re Steele case, 974,
978.
Grampus, a navy vessel, on cruise in
Gulf of Mex., 776.
Grand jury (E. Fla. dist.), abstract of
jurors, 933–934, 960–961; injury to
commerce by pirates and wreckers
at the Keys presented as grievance,
295; present. of (text), 295–296;
present. to be sent to Pres., 296; pro-
tests absence of funds to defray
expense of the province, 296; pro-
tests oper. of Span. law, 295; urges
estab. light house at St. Augustine,
295; welcomes DuVal., 295. See also
East Florida District, list of grand
and petit jurors.
Grand jury (W. Fla. dist.), abstract of
jurors, 936; certain indicts. by,
quashed, 893, 894, 897; charges
against Steele, 811–812; discussed,
982; foremen and presents. discussed,
872—874; Fromentin plans to call,
347–348; indicts. of: Coulons, 870,
887–888, 896, 898, 899, Steele et al.,
893; indicts. Quashed by sup. ct.
judge, 888, 890, 897, 910; ment.,
911; ment. re Steele case, 860, 861,
863; motion of U. S. atty. to dis-
charge foreman discussed, 882; pre-
sent. in praise of Brackenridge dis-
cussed, 861, 866–867; present. (text),
788–790; present. printed in Floridian,
787, 788 n.; recomds. repairs to jail,
262 n.; rejects charge against Steele,
975, 978; selection criticized, 865–
866, 871; signers of present., 790.
See also West Florida District, grand
jury presentment.
Grand jurors, names of, and payts. to,
613 n., 614 n., 790, 797—798, 822, 893,
896, 933–934, 936, 960–961; qualifs.
of, 398.
Grand Pré, Henry de, charges by,
against Steele, 810–811, 863; encls.
affids. cridical of Steele, 863; grand
juror, 613 n.; in alleged combine
against Steele, 977; indicted for riot,
896; involved in Coulons assault case,
For identical names, see index mote, p. 988



I N D E X
1039
Guillemard, Arnaldo, and Williers, me-
morial discussed, 404.
Gulf of Mexico, fortifs. on, discussed,
839–840; in rel. to Key West, 352,412;
ment., 115, 465, 776; Pensacola im-
portant to defense of commerce on,
527, 766; to be joined to Atlantic by
rd., 729.
Gulf stream, effect of, 387.
Gun boat No. 158, unable to enter St.
Johns r. acct. of heavy seas, 430.
Gun boat No. 168, expected in St. Johns
r., 408; to carry Butler to St. Au-
gustine, 48.
Guthman, Lewis C., signer, 287.
Habeas corpus, applic. in W. Fla.
illegal as of 1821–22, 250–253; author.
to grant, under temp. govt. of Fla.,
242; inhabs. entitled to benefits of,
397; operation of, re Callava, 185–188;
right to issue questioned, 185–188.
Hackley, Richard S., alleged intent to
cut timber on Alagon grant, 847;
appd. survn. and inspect. of customs,
St. Augustine, 52, 56, 360; claim to
part of Alagon grant discussed, 847;
nativity, 360; non-arrival of, 195, 272,
360; relative of: Madison, 56, Ran-
dolph, 56.
Haddock, Joseph, petit juror, 823.
Haff, John, signer, 288.
Hagan (Hagans), Joseph, petit juror,
961.
Haguon, Lewis, signer, 449.
Hall, David, signer, 290; solicits appt. to
command revenue cutter, 283.
Hall, James, grand juror, 960; j. p. St.
Johns Co., 359; nativity, 359; signer,
367, 448, 566; takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Hall, Joseph W., grand juror, 614 n.;
signer, 297.
Hall, Rep. Thomas H., of N. C.,
recomas. Branch as govr., 10 n.
Hall, William T., petit juror,
signer, 858.
Hambleton, Benjamin, petit juror, 937.
Hambly, —, interpreter, 207; resides at
O-chuse-ulga, 464; visits Washington
with Blunt, 519.
799;
Hamilton, Alexander, accepts Rodman's
disavowal of offense, 711; affid. of,
709–710; bears Judge Smith's let. to
Sec. State, 556; begins suits for libel
and conspiracy against Gomez and
Hernandez, 710; believes Cath. Ch.
property passes to U. S., 458; cand.
for terr. deleg.: accused of improper
actions to secure votes, 593 n., facing
702, answers charges, 708, discussed,
716, 717, notice re, 693, total votes
recd., 693 n.; charges against, dis-
cussed, 716–717; complains of unfair-
ness of Hernandez, 709; confers with
Pres., 944; demands personal satisf.
from Rodman, 710; denies intent to
claim church property for U. S., 501;
enroute to N. Y. from Washington,
945; extract of let. to, from Floyd,
830; fVds. recomd. of Gaither for
legis. council, 449 n.; hands U. S.
laws to Smith, 592; incurs enmity of
Minorcans, 708; integrity defended
by Smith, 716–717; land commr.
(E. Fla. land dist.): accused of using
office to promote cand. as terr. deleg.,
703, 704–705, 708, 709, appd. and
comma., 656, 677, 678, 805 n.,
charges against, facing 702, believes
extended sessions needed, 824, corresp.
with Floyd cited, 948, criticizes other
commrs., 824, 828–829, 945–950,
declares Burgevin claim a forgery,
966, desires to rept. proceeds. to
Sec. Treas., 824, 828, discloses erasure
in legal Span. docs., 945, encls. notes
re actions, 944, motions ment. re
transls. of Span. docs., 947, motions
ment. to employ clks. in accord with
Cong. act, 947, offers cancel. of resig.,
966, opposes claim of Gomez to
Crosby estate, 709, oppos. to, 703,
704–705, perm. comm. not found,
805 n., private let. to Sec. Treas. by
other commrs. kept from, 946, 947,
proposals re procedures and reguls.
of business, 825–828, queries by, re
interpret. of Span. land grants,
825–827, reasons for resig., 945–950,
regrets interfer. with Rev. Crosby,
facing 702, rept. before H. R. pub.
lands comm., 950, rept. of actions,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1040
I N D E X
Hamilton, Rep. James, Jr., of S. C.,
recomas. Murphy as land commr.,
850 n.
Hamilton, L. L., signer, 287.
Hammersley, Lt. Comdr. Thomas S.,
to await Hutten in timber inspect.,
430.
Handley, Jesse, signer, 322.
Hanham, Capt. James R., arrives in
St. Augustine from Pensacola, 169;
carries: DuVal papers to St. Augus-
tine, 548, Jackson dispatches to Bell,
169, laws re Indians to Eustis, 547,
messages and ordinances to St.
Augustine, 167, Pensacola lets. to St.
Augustine, 178; creditors of, 777;
letters to: DuVal, 727, Pres., 777;
member legis. council: actions in elec.,
545, appd. and commd. as, 423, pay
and mileage, 630, tenure, 423; petit
juror, 799; recomd. as U. S. marshal,
639 m.; sails from St. Augustine to Pen-
sacola, 489; sheriff (St. Johns Co.):
absence of, 486 n., acct. sent to Sec.
State, 726, 727, appd., 134, 194 n.,
357, 777, fees due to, 688, legis.
council rejects nomin. of, 727, nativ-
ity, 357, no funds for service, 777,
opens office, 171 n., presents acct. to
DuVal, 727, recomd. as U. S. marshal,
639 n., vacates office on appt. to legis.
council, 486 m.; signer, 367, 401, 449;
solicits appt. as U. S. marshal, 639 n.;
suits for debt against, 727.
Hanna, Andrew, signer, 323.
Hanna, John H., let. ment. to Johnson,
807.
Hannah (Hanna), Matthew, grand
juror, 613 n.; petit juror, 611; signs
for Doyle, 611.
Hannum, Washington L., appd. prosec.
atty., W. Fla., 132, 134 n.; note re,
134 n.; signer, 183,289, 318, 481.
Hanson, John M., signer, 367, facing
702, 986; U. S. marshal: acks. receipt
of comm., 957 n., appd. and commó.
as, 956, recoma. by Call as, 957 n.,
tenure, 957.
Harbor master, Pensacola, appt. of, 131;
vacancy, 361.
Hardin, Rep. Ky.,
Benjamin, of
945–950, resigns, 805 n., 917, 948,
966 n., solicits appt. as, 656 n.; letters
ment. to: Bishop England, 458, ma-
jority of commrs., 949, Rodman, 710,
711, Sec. State, 507, 677, Sec. Treas.,
949, Smith, 592; letters to: Floyd,
825–830, Maury, 724, Pres., 641,
677–678, 708, 824–825, 944–945, Rod-
man, 711, Sec. State, 459–460, 483–
484, 501, 580–582, 964–967; letters to,
from: Brent, 507, Rodman, 710, 711,
Sec. State, 498; needs copy of U. S.
laws, 460; note re, 413; opinions re:
appt. of U. S. atty. after end of sup.
ct. sess., 677, E. Fla. archs., 965,
econ. future of Fla., 581, land claims,
580–581, State Dept. order embracing
all docs. in archs., 756; plans to leave
Fla., 641; Pres. asks opinion re status
of E. Fla. archs. pertain. to land, 964;
prevents appt. of Lancaster, 946–947;
recomas.: Gibson and Simmons to
admin. E. Fla. archs., 965, Hanham
as U. S. marshal, 639 n., land commrs.
for E. Fla., 580–581, use of Govt.
house for pub. offices, 483–484;
represents clients with claims on St.
Augustine corp., 724; requests exam.
archs. for special docs., 729; Rodman
employed to bring libel suit against,
710; signer, 401, 449; solicits appt. as
naval agt. in N. Y., 641; suggests
instrs. re organiz. E. Fla. archs., 965;
U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.): appd. and
comma., 413–414, arrival in St.
Augustine, 647, date comm. sent to,
414 n., desires quarters in Govt.
house, 500, pay as, 631, 678 n.,
query re phrasing of comm., 459–460,
recomd. by Cong. deleg. of N. Y.,
414 n., recomas. Copp for appt. as,
678, resigns, 678 m., 682, 806 n.,
tenure, 414, 678 n.; votes against
return of land papers to keeper of
archs., 731.
Hamilton, Alexander, and Floyd, lets.
ment. to Sec. Treas., 735; let. to Sec.
Treas., 722; request transf. to, of
pub. docs. transfö. by Coppinger,
722. See also Floyd, Davis.
Hamilton, A. W., appd. survi. and in-
spect. customs, Pensacola, 658.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X
1041
recomás.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Hardin, Mark, appd. coll. customs, St.
Marks, 52, 56.
Hardridge, James, Indian interpreter,
578.
Hardy, R. M., let. re Seminole condition
sent to Sec. War, 219 n.
Harmon, Adolphus, signer, 322.
Harmony, a brig, to carry ill seamen to
Norfolk, 781.
Harper, Benjamin, witness, 614 n.
Harrel, Dempsey, signer, 322.
Harrell, Henry, petit juror, 614 n.
Harris, Thomas, signer, 287.
Harris, W. W., recomils. Jackson as
survi., 943 n.
Harrison, Ephraim, grand juror, 933;
signer, 566, 813, 814, 816, 819.
Harrison, John, grand juror, 933; signer,
813, 814, 816, 819.
Harrison, Robert, petit juror,
signer, 566, 813, 816, 819.
Harrison, Samuel, grand juror, 933;
signer, 566, 819.
Harrison, Samuel, Jr., signer, 566, 819.
Harrison, Samuel, Sr., signer, 813, 814,
816.
Harrison, Tipton B., acks. receipt of
comm., 414 n.; appd. and comma.
U. S. atty. (W. Fla. dist.), 414 n.;
death of, 447 n., 531, 594 n., 652,
700, 738, 739, 781; recomas. Shomo
as U. S. marshal, 591 n.; succeeded by
White, 594, 738, 739.
Harrison, Gov. William Henry, of
Indiana Terr., sal. as supt. Indians
cited, 734 n.
Hart, Daniel C., petit juror, 934; signer,
477.
Hart, Isaiah D., signer, 477.
Hart, J. D., signer, 858.
Hart, Josiah D., signer, 350.
Hart, Moses, signer, 367, 372.
Hartley, George, petit juror, 963 n.
Hartley, Henry, petit juror, 961.
Hartley, Mark, signer, 287.
Hartmann, S., signer, 288.
Hathaway, Eben, signer, 322.
Havana (Havanna), Cuba, 89, 113, 239,
441, 443; archs. removed to: alleged
823;
by Bell, 345, by Span. officials, 336–
837, extent of, 152, land papers,
235, 516, 517, Span. officials deny,
516; crew of Hornet ill at, 140; distance
to: Key West, 352, 362, 411, Tav-
erniers Key, 686; duties on U. S.
transports discussed, 86 n., 87; fishing
boats trade at, 382; Forbes mission to:
date of departure, 100, let. ment. to
Jackson, 140, sources re, 69 n., to
arrange removal of Span. troops, 11–
12; harbor superior to Pensacola, 527;
Hernandez to visit, 657, 658; Hornet
arrives at Pensacola from, 84; ment.,
892, 921; Nonsuch sails for St. Augu-
stine from, 97; Pénières has no instrs.
to visit, 279; Perry stops for ship
repairs, 385; query re status of slaves
taken to, by inhabs. E. Fla., 405;
rations for cruise to St. Augustine
discussed, 86, 88; removal of Span.
troops to: assured, 79, discussed, 6, 14,
20, 22, embarked, 112, 341, 708,
enroute, 118, plan completed, 103,
plan discussed, 122–123, query re no.,
62, rations for, 73, 83; right of Span.
visitors to take slaves, 301; St.
Augustine in Cath. bishopric of, 459;
Simonton at, 462; slaves of Carrera
removed to, 324; source of yellow
fever in Fla., 532 n.; Span. commr.
arrives at St. Augustine from, 61, 80,
81; Thompson returns from, 140;
Warner U. S. commercial agt. at, 386;
wreckers from, at Key Vaca, 713;
yellow fever endemic to, 728.
Hawkins, Col. Benjamin, ment., 159;
note re, 149.
Hawthorn, N., signer, 292.
Hay, Mrs. George, daughter of Pres.
Monroe, 678.
Hay, -, ment., 779.
Hayes, Col. Stockley, of Tenn., recoma.
as judge, 43 n.
Hayne, Arthur P., of S. C., cand. for
appt. as land commr., 429 n.
Hayne, Sen. Robert Y., of S. C.,
recomds. Simmons as land commr.,
958 n.
Hays, Narcissa, ment., 282, 348; niece
of Mrs. Jackson, 259.
For identical names, see indea: note, p. 988
301867–57—67



1042
I N DE X
Hayward, William, Jr., of Md., ment.,
824; recomds. Allen as land commr.,
917.
Health officer, Pensacola, appt. of, 131.
Hendricks, Isaac, grand juror, 963 n.;
signer, 565; takes naturaliz. oath, 434.
Hendricks, Gov. William, of Ind.,
recomds. Johnston and Wick as
judges, W. Fla., 317 n.
Henley, Capt. John D., commands the
Hornet, 292; gives party on the
Hornet, 348; instrs. to bring piracy
captures within juris. U. S. cts., 293.
Hennea, Ann Maria, brings dom. slaves
to Pensacola on visit, 876, 877;
daughter of W. Davison, 876.
Henrietta, a schooner, carries stores
from New Orleans to Pensacola, 915.
Henry Hill, ship engaged to transp.
troops, 836.
Hering, Jesse, signer, 287.
Hernandez, Catalina, signer, 761.
Hernandez, Gabriel, signer, 289, 309,
314, 625.
Hernandez, José (Joseph), petit juror,
800; signer, 315, 704, 761.
Hernandez, Joseph M., accuses Hamil-
ton of using position to win votes,
709; appd. alderman and city warden,
St. Augustine, 120; brig. geml., militia:
appd., 529, signs genl. orders, 722;
describes soil and products of E. Fla.,
940–941; elec. affid. ment., 708; helps
pay Bell's fine, 269 m.; let. to QMG,
940–942; member legis. council: appa.
and comma. as, 423, 913, declines
appt., 460, expected resign. as, 448,
recomd. as, 407, 859, resigns, 423 n.,
449 n., tenure, 423; note re, 528 n.;
recomils. Simmons as land commr.,
958 n.; signer, 349, 530, 760, 986; sued
by Hamilton for libel and conspiracy,
710; to recomd. suitable land to
Jesup, 940.
Hernandez, Del. Joseph M., believes
Indians should be concentrated, 644;
cand. for re-election, 693; desires mail
sent via St. Augustine-Cowford-St.
Marys r. route, 655; elected, 528 n.;
encla. to Sec. State corresp. re use of
pub. blogs., 604; estim. for St. Augus-
tine-Pensacola rq. sent to, for present.
to Cong., 654; fVds. land act to W. Fla.
land commrs., 678; letters ment. to:
Sec. War, 651, Williams, 642; letters
to: Pres., 616, 623–624, 629, Rankin,
605–606, Sec. State, 604, 645–646,
648–649, Sec. War, 642–645, Vice
Pres., 619–622; letters to, from: Sec.
War, 628–629, 651–652, Ware, 619–
620; memo re open. rds., 633–634; no.
votes recd., 693 n.; opposes appt. of
Gaither to legis. council, 623; plans
visit to Havana, 657; query re return
to Span. of archs. not relevant to
inhabs., 648–649; recomás.: appt. of
commrs. known to Indians for treaty
negots., 644, E. Fla. Herald to publ.
terr. laws, 645, loc. of terr. capital
near Suwannee r., 643, Mitchel for
appt. to legis. council, 629; requests
relief of land claimants from expense
of proving titles, 605–606; resols. by:
ment. re pub. blogs, in Pensacola, 604,
re amending land claims act, 553 n.,
re civil-military dispute, 604; sup-
ported for re-elec. by Minorcans and
Span. inhabs., 716; to advise commns.
re Indian treaty negots., 660; to de-
liver unwanted Span. archs. to
Havana, 658.
Hernandez, Mantina, signer, 761.
Hernandez, Martin, recoma. as member
legis. council, 423 m.
Hernandez, Miguel, signer, 289.
Hero, a schooner, carries ill seamen from
Key West to Norfolk, 781; hails the
Lady Washington in Gulf of Mex., 489.
Herskill, Capt. —, prosec. against, ment.,
916.
Hich-e-puc-sasse, Indian settle., 464.
Hickman, Joshua, grand juror, 822, 934;
signer, 566.
Higginbotham (Higinbotham),
petit juror, 823.
Higginbottom (Higginbotham), Elijah,
petit juror, 935.
High Constable, fees as compens., 357,
358.
High Sheriff, fees as compens., 357.
Hill, Christina, signer, 761.
Hill, Joseph, signer, 565; signs for Fitz-
patrick, 934.
Hillsborough Bay, Cant. Brooke on, 845.
John,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X
1043
Hillsborough River, Cant. Brooke on,
near Hillsborough Bay, 845; hum-
mocks present near source of, 969.
Hindemberg, A., signer, 322.
Hobart, Capt. William F., command
occupies blogs. near monastery, 307.
Hobbs, Absalom, selected to remain with
Moorhead on Thompson Island, 389.
Hobby, W.I., of Ga., brings suit against
Steele, 952; claim against Steele, 911
n.; client of Steele, 952.
Hobkirk, William, signer, 566.
Hoffman, Dr. Richard K., navy surgeon,
leaves for Norfolk with sick Seamen,
776, 781.
Hogans, Charles, petit juror, 961; signer,
477, 565.
Hogans, Daniel, petit juror, 961; signer,
477, 565.
Hogans, John R., petit juror, 961; signer,
477, 565, 961.
Hogans, L. Z., signer, 477.
Hogans, Rubin, signer, 565.
Hogans, Zach L., petit juror, 934.
Hogg, Benjamin (Benjemin), signer,
297, 321.
Hogg, James, signer, 298.
Hogg, Samuel, recomds. Hayes as judge,
43 n.
Hogg, Wedder, signer, 297.
Holcombe, Rep. George, of N. J.,
recomas. DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Holley, William, signer, 321.
Holmes, Rep. David, of Miss., recomas.:
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.,
Murray as U. S. atty., 414 n., Overton
as land commr., 428 n. See also
Rankin, Rep. Christopher.
Holmes, Elijah H., signer, 292, 323.
Hooks, Rep. Charles, of N. C., recomas.
Branch as govr., 10 n.
Hope Hill, loc. of, 496 n.; white settle.
at, 496.
Hopoi Tuskamicksy, Indian chief, meets
Wright at St. Marks, 578.
Horn Island, off Mobile Point, ships
wrecked on, 489.
Hornet, sloop of war, 89, 95, 152;
captures pirate brig Centinella, 292;
date of arrival at Pensacola from
Havana, 84, 97, 141; discussed or
ment. re transfer of Fla., 137, 138,
139, 140, 141, 147; Forbes sails to
Pensacola on, 90; Fromentin plans
trip to Washington on, 347; Henley
gives party on, 348; Jackson awaits
arrival of, 69; no word from, 58;
query re arrival in Pensacola, 60;
sails from Havana for Pensacola, 81,
97; to carry Forbes to Havana, 11,
14; to convoy Span. troops to Cuba, 71.
Hospital, Pensacola: cond. of, 153, 155–
156, 162, possessed by citizens under
Brit. grant, 601, Spanish, 97; St.
Augustine: assigned to civil author.,
286, 331, bd. of health resol. for
removal of, 219, recomd. for removal
from center of town, 203, 215, re-
moval discussed, 228, to be vacated
by troops, 306.
Houston, James R., signer, 565.
Houston, John, grand juror, 822; signer,
566, 764.
Houston (Huston), John C., grand ju-
ror, 822; signer, 566.
Houston, Rep. Samuel, of Tenn.,
recomás.: Blair as sup. judge, 954 n.,
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.
Howard, Robert, recomas. Rodericks
as U. S. marshal, 46 n.
Howell, J. S., signer, 287.
Hubbard, Adolphus F., of Ill., recomd.
as judge, 43 n.
Hubbert, James, signer, 322.
Hudnall, Ezekiel, comm. as j. p. recalled
by Worthington, 359; nativity, 359;
takes naturaliz. oath, 434; signer, 350.
Huertas, Antonio, signer, 761.
Huertas, Juan (John), appd.: alderman,
St. Augustine, 120, city warden, St.
Augustine, 120; signer, 367, 761.
Hughes, Hudson, signer, 288.
Hughes, Richmond R., petit juror,
613 n., 614 n.; signer, 322.
Huguon (Hugan), Lewis, petit juror,
798, 962; signer, 367.
Hummocks (hammocks),
Seminole reserv., 969.
Humphreys, Gad, absent from St.
Marks, 694; affid. re Reilly's sale of
liquor to Indians, 882–883; appd.
Indian agt., 21 n., 429–430, 450, 452,
497, 509; arrival at Pensacola: awaited,
474, 497, 498, date of, 598; arrives at
loc. of, in
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1044
I N DE X
Pensacola with Seminole chiefs, 922;
assigned to duty with W. Fla. In-
dians, 681; author. as Indian agt.,
452; authd. to grant trade licenses,
454, 504, 603, 694; commended for
services re Indian treaty, 751; copy of
affid. certified, 884; date fixed for
start to Fla., 532; delay in start to
Fla. cause for new appt., 510; deputed
to deliver Indian treaty to Sec. War,
747 n., fails: to meet Gadsden, 970,
to reach St. Marks, 626; funds: accts.
to be rendered quarterly to govr.,
454, 674, estimates sent to Sec. War,
598, govr. to supply, 509, paid, 691,
responsible to Indian supt. for, 603;
illness of, 626, 628; Indian land grant
to, vetoed, 747 n., instrs. to: by Walton
approved by War Dept., 654, ment.,
671, to discharge Richards if untrust-
worthy, 671; in Washington, D. C.,
817; law re disburse. pub. money sent
to, 670; leaves Pensacola for St.
Marks, 607, 628; letters ment. to:
DuVal, 939, Sec. War, 532, Walton,
670; letters to Walton, 628, 672–674;
letters to, from: Sec. War, 509–510,
532–533, Walton, 601–603; meets
Gadsden, 922; ment., 533, 870; non-
arrival of, 559, 577; note re, 429;
opinion ment. re Indian rations under
1823 treaty, 779; ordered to: allow no
delay in reaching Fla., 532, assemble
Indians for treaty negots., 660, en-
courage improved Indian agric., 602,
Fla., 508, 509, 513, f\vds. bond before
leaving home, 533, lead Seminole
chiefs to Washington, 964, obey orders
of Indian treaty commrs., 660, 817,
pay subagt., 603, post, 817, repair to
St. Augustine for service to Indian
commrs., 713, rept. to DuVal on
arrival at Pensacola, 509; out of army
due to reduction in force, 450; praised
by DuVal, 745, 923; prelim. plans on
Indian conf. entrusted to, 559; rept.
by, re Indian affairs, 672–674; sends
Walton copy of talk with Seminole
chiefs, 670; storm forces ship to return
to Pensacola, 628; supplied with in-
form. and instrs., 607; tenure as
Indian agt., 430; to bear DuVal's let.
to Sec. War, 744; to remain in
Pensacola to prosecute Simon, 670,
674; to reside at St. Marks, 671;
worked solely with Indians betw.
Apalachicola and Suwannee rivers,
908.
Hunt, William Hasell, buys the Flori-
dian, 920; certfs. attend. of grand
and petit jurors for Miller, 938; in
alleged combine against Steele, 977;
petit juror, 611; signs grand jury
present., 790; witness, 614 n., 812.
See also Fitzgerald, John, and Co.,
and Hunt.
Hunter, M., secy. to bd. land commrs.
(W. Fla. dist.), declines to apply for
appt. as land commr., 846; former
judge in Ala., 718 n.; recomd. as
land commr., 718 n.
Huntsville (Ala.), on rd. to Nashville,
Tenn., 766.
Hurlbert, Daniel, grand juror, 797;
signer, 371, facing 702, 704, 761, 764,
858.
Hurley, William, signer, 322.
Huston, see Houston.
Hutchings, Stokley D.,
tioneer, Pensacola, 131 n.
Hutchinson, Joseph, of Ga., recomd. as
rec. l. o., 4 n.; solicits appt. as U. S.
atty., 50 n.
Hutchinson (Hutcheson), Robert, petit
juror, 961; signer, 478.
Hutter, Lt. George C., receipt ment. for
supplies to Indians, 576, 578.
Hutton, James, inspector of timber at
St. Pablo, 407; believes repts. exag-
gerate timber depreds., 430; repts.
cited re timber in E. Fla., 378 m.; to
join Elton for survey of timber
resources, 377–378; watches for illegal
timber shipment, 408.
Hynes, Alfred W., acct. presented for
settle., 566–567; appd. surviſ. customs
vice Gibbs, 360; believed lost at sea,
489; brother-in-law to DuVal, 566;
date of appt., 567; employed as clk.
at Pensacola by govr., 489, 733;
leaves St. Augustine for Pensacola,
567; let. of appt. sent to Johnson, 566;
nativity, 360; pay for services 489 n.,
615; sails aboard the Lady Washing-
appd. auc-
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1045
ton, 489; secy. to Worthington, 566;
signer, 350.
Hynes, Andrew, recomas. Carroll as
govr., 10 n.
Ill-la-toa-ka, Seminole chief, murders
white men, 503.
Immigration, bars to, 524–525; increased
in terr., 908.
Indiana (State), Floyd visits, 966.
Indian agency, perm. loc. of: discussed,
746—747, not fixed, 601–602; St.
Marks recomd. as temp. seat, 602.
Indian agent, appt. of: authd. by Cong.,
429 n., by Pres., 429–430, discussed,
278, 450, Humphreys, 452; arrival of,
expected, 554; fin. accts. to be sent to
supt., 603; instrs. to Humphreys,
601–603; ordered to repair to Fla.,
508; salary, 655; tenure, 430; to be
advised to enforce law against illegal
trade, 926. See also Humphreys,
Gad.
Indian Commissioners, appd. to negot.
treaty, 691—692; compens. fixed, 660;
desire conf. with Miconope, 681 n.;
leave n. limits of Seminole reserv.
open, 778; let. ment. to Sec. War,
970; recomd. estab. milit. posts to
stop Indian trade with foreigners,
750; rept. by, to Sec. War re negot. of
Seminole treaty, 747–751; secy. pro-
vided, 660; to be supplied with milit.
guard, 713.
Indian country, defined, 512; white
lawbreakers in, may be removed and
punished, 512.
Indian Department (Fla.), finances of,
671; list of stores left with Wanton,
ment., 533; stores delivered to Wig-
noles, 533. -
Indian interpreter, acct. of Richards,
505; appt. of, 278, 410; pay, 26; to be
carefully selected, 602.
Indian subagents, appt. of, 278, 279,
452.
Indian trade, intercourse act provides
penalties for illegal, 926; laws refwd.
to DuVal, 491; measures to prevent
illegal, discussed, 926–927; supts.
and agts. of Indians only to issue
licenses, 512, 694.
Indian traders, must be licensed by
Pres., Indian agt., or govr., 454, 504;
not licensed in E. Fla., 495; un-
licensed: on McHardy's plant., 495,
to be removed, 220–221.
Indian treaties, Jackson opposes, within
organized terrs., 278.
Indian treaty, Seminole (1823), commrs.
appd. to hold, 659–661; discussed,971;
docs. re discussed, 747–748 n.; DuVal
to attend negots., 659; Hernandez to
advise with commrs., 659; instrs. to
commrs., 659–661; journal of pro-
ceeds. noted, 748 m.; ment., 783; prov.
for mark. bounds. discussed, 752;
provisions main expense, 660; rati-
fied by Senate, 817; rations for In-
dians discussed, 779; reconcil. of all
chiefs to, hoped for, 841; rept. re
negot. of, and explan. of terms of,
747–751; Segui to make prelim. plans
for, 659; sent to Pres., 778; site for
negots. discussed, 659; U. S. bound to
execute provs. of, 922.
Indians, consent to land grants viewed
as essential, 270–271; conting. ex-
penses, 655; deliver lets. to Walton,
305; Dexter assigned to duty with,
681; distress of, reland claimants, 491;
DuVal in sole charge of south., in Fla.,
908; expenses incurred in admin. to be
pd. by govr., 513; frequent visitors to
govr. at Pensacola, 733; fug. slaves
under protect. of, 762; H. R. inquiry
re rels. with, in Fla., 582; instrs. to
supt. of, 452–455; Jackson's views re
problem of, 232—233; location: claim
to land w. of St. Johns r., 644, con-
centr, advocated, 644, distrib. thru
Fla., 970, intended in n. part of Fla.,
488, near the Apalachicola r., 488, not
fixed, 601, Sec. War misinformed of,
733, urged s. of Charlotte's harbor,
652, Walton's proposed talk with, re,
305; lost crops from floods, 471; many
own property, 733; negro slaves
among, 820; no hostile intent seen,
577; no licensed traders among, 495;
no white settlers within bounds. of,
465; not informed re appt. of agt.,
471; not punishable for cross. bound.
line unless commit. crime, 513; order
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1046
I N DE X
for arrest of seller of liquor to, 883;
origin in Fla., 232; peaceful, except
Neamathla and band, 832; popula-
tion: estimated, 465, small, relative to
other terrs., 691; presents: annual cost
of, 655, purchd. in New Orleans, 502;
queries re: agcy. to grant licenses and
passports, 496, agreements with Span.,
456, applic. of trade law to Fla., 496,
completion of Span. sale contracts,
496, defray. expense of interpreter,
497, practices, 496, 497, results of
estab. bound. line, 496, right of remov.
white settlers who commit offenses
within bounds. of, 496, right of
white settle. within bound. line of,
496, right to sell livestock and slaves,
496; rations: query re control of is-
sues, 497, to be supplied on business
visits to posts, 513, under 1823 treaty
discussed, 779; reliance of Span. St.
Augustine on, for livestock, 644; reptă.
peaceful in E. Fla., 250; to be en-
couraged to improve agric., 602; trade
with: acts ment. re, 26, 27 n., in live-
stock stopped, 548, laws regul., apply
to Fla., 512, not permitted without
licenses from supt. or agt., 512, for-
eigners to be prohibd., 750; treaty
negots.: commrs. to be appa., 652, de-
ferred, 626; uneasy, 167 n., 305, 347,
471-472, 495; visiting St. Augustine:
buy liquor, 495, complain of DuVal's
failure to meet, at St. Marks, 542,
riotous conduct, 60, to be assured of
friendly U. S. attitude, 165, to sell
skins, 495; white persons forbidden
to settle near or in towns of, 504.
See also Creek Indians; Seminole
Indians.
Ingraham, Jeremiah, signer, 288, 321;
witness, 614 n., 812.
Innerarity, John (Juan), action against,
348; affid. ment. against Steele, 912
n.; applies in habeas corpus writ re
Callava, 185 (see also Brosnaham,
John; Rua, John de la); appd. alder-
man, Pensacola, 131; brother-in-law
of Coulons, 874; char. referred to Call
and Jackson for comment, 873;
charges against, 871; executor of
Vidal estate, 184 m.; fails to render
acct, re Vidal estate, 185 m.; foreman
grand jury, 866, 871, 873; fVds.
package to Dept. State, 692; grand
juror, 613 n.; in alleged combine
against Steele, 977, 978; recoma. for
legis. council, 803; signer, 309, 314,
625; surety for Callava, 187. See
also Vidal v. Innerarity.
Inspector General of Militia, duties of,
721; repts. to, required, 665.
Inspector of Customs, appt. at Key
West discussed, 615; appt. of, 56,121;
in charge of ship laden with illegally
cut timber, 436.
Ireland, native land of: Addison, 359,
Lynch, 360, Murray, 359, Vignoles,
360.
Irish, circular to, in St. Augustine, 194.
Isaac, Robert, signer, 761.
Isidoro, a slave, 324.
Islands, dependent on E. Fla., 68; e. of
Cape Fla. to be occupied, 34; query
by Butler re, dependent on E. Fla., 62.
Israel, S., capt. of Adeline, 88.
Israel, see Dusar and Israel.
Italy, Baker former consul in,
Mauri native of, 359.
Ivy, Charles, signer, 292, 322.
56;
Jackall, U. S. schooner, arrives at Key
West, 776.
Jackson (Ala.), rd. to, from Taitsville,
765.
Jackson, Maj. Gen. Andrew, appd. and
comma. as commr. to occupy the
Floridas, 8–9; appt. discussed, 21 n.;
anxiety re transfer of St. Augustine,
146; appt. problem in W. Fla., 153–
154; appoints: Bell act. govr. of E.
Fla. until arrival of Worthington, 114,
Butler to occupy St. Augustine, 32–35,
Gadsden to rec. St. Marks, 140 n.,
Gaines to occupy St. Augustine, 28,
31, Worthington as acting govr., E.
Fla., 104–105; arrives at Blakeley,
Ala., 38; arts. of agree. with Callava
re trans. W. Fla., 122–124; asks
instrs. re Creek Indians in Fla., 29;
author. and power over ceded Fla.,
9–10, 18–19, 23, 104, 110; auths.
Gadsden to meet Callava, 82; auraits:
copy of instrs. to subagt. Indian affrs.,
For identical names, see index: note, p. 988



I N D E X
1047
Marks, 53, 140, Gadsden as agt. in
Pensacola, 143, patrol Fla. coast to
Tampa Bay, 39, Rogers to prepare
sea biscuit ration for Span. troops, 40,
Worthington to act as govr., E. Fla.,
91, 99; instrs. to: discussed, 91–92,
ment. re march of troops to Galvez
Spring, 147, 148, re Indian affairs,
25–26, re occup. of Fla., 13–16, 19–20,
re U. S. claims to cannon in surren-
dered forts, 23–24; irritated at Cal-
lava's delay in fixing date of W. Fla.
transfer, 148; irritated by Callava's
refusal to sign inventories, 148–149;
joins troops at Galvez Spring, 147;
letters ment. to: Butler, 98, 140, 146,
Callava, 71, 74, 78, 122, 137, 138, 141,
142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, Fanning,
140, 147, Forbes, 95, 141, 146, Gads-
den, 140, Gaines, 32, Sec. State, 40,
57, 68, 70, 99, 100, 137, 140, 141, 146,
147, Sec. War, 40; lets. sent to Pres.
in Loudoun Co., Va., 100; letters to:
Butler, 32–35, 97–99, Callava, 73–74,
90, Fanning, 53, 109, Forbes, 89–90,
Pres., 70–71, Sec. State, 28–29, 30–31,
36–38, 38–40, 41–42, 119, Sec. War,
31–32, 58–59, Worthington, 91–92;
letters to, from: Callava, 74–77, 84–85,
Fanning, 101–102, Forbes, 83–84, 95–
96, Pres., 53–57, Sec. State, 13–16,
23–24, 50–52, 57–58, 99–100, Sec.
War, 19–20, 25–26, 40–41, 81; meets
Fromentin in New Orleans, 36; negots.
with Callava for transfer of W. Fla.,
144-146; opinion of Atty. Genl. ment.
re pay, 40; opinions re: appts. by Fed.
govt., 52 n., 117, danger from Creeks
in Fla., 58, Mahy, 152, ownership of
ordnance under treaty, 30–31, 142;
poor health of self and wife, 71;
prelim. plans re occup. Fla., 71; pro-
ceeds from Blakeley to Montpelier,
137; procla. re U. S. occup. of Fla.:
issued by Butler, 115, ment., 33, recd.
in St. Augustine, 113, tect, 110–111;
proclaims civil officers under Spain to
remain as such, 124; proclaims ordi-
nance for W. Fla., 150; proposed
meeting with Callava, 78, 144; query
by, re action if no order comes from
Cuba, 58–59; query to, by Callava re
58, inform. from Forbes before occup.
of Pensacola, 28, word from Cuba re
move of Span. troops, 58; baggage
sent by water via New Orleans, 58;
begins negots. with Callava re U. S.
occup. W. Fla., 74; Callava admits
auth. of, to rec. W. Fla., 93; Callava
desires agreement re evacu., 82; can-
not cash drafts in New Orleans with-
out loss, 37; charges Callava with
breach of faith, 149–150; claim for
U. S. retention of ordnance denied by
Callava, 145–146; commission: does
not define powers, 151, receipt ackd.
with other docs., 28, special, as govr.,
18–19, three sent, 13; corresp. with
Callava re transf. W. Fla. discussed
or ment., 137, 138, 139, 141–142, 143,
144–145, 146, 147, 148, 149; date of
removal to Manuels, 142–143; de-
mands explanation from Forbes rear-
rangement with Mahy, 89–90; drafts
cannot be cashed in St. Augustine, 61;
draws drafts on Sec. State in favor of
Stanton, 119–120; enroute to Mont-
pelier via New Orleans, 36, 38; fails
to cash bills on U. S. in south, 41;
fills offices in W. Fla., 150; fVds. docs.
to Worthington re organiz. St. Augus-
tine and E. Fla., 133–134; hopes to
cash drafts in Pensacola or Mobile,
37; impatience of, re nonarrival of the
Hornet from Havana, 139, 140, 141;
informed re: arrival of Span. agt. with
instrs. at St. Augustine, 81, Forbes'
arrival at Pensacola, 65, 93, move of
troop ships from Boston to Fernan-
dina, 46 n., sending Span. agt. to
Pensacola with instrs. for transfer, 81,
U. S. occup. of St. Marks, 109; informs
Callava of: intent to move U. S.
troops near Pensacola, 142, readiness
to occupy Pensacola, 143; informs:
Gaines of Butler's appt., 32, Sec. State
re plan to import slaves before U. S.
occup., 38; ment., 48, 126, 355;
instrs. and orders by, to: Bell to act as
secy. and govr. E. Fla., 124, 125,
Brooke to send mail from Memphis
to Blakeley, 39, Butler re occup. E.
Fla., 33–34, 97–99, Fanning to aban-
don Ft. Gadsden and occupy Ft.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1048
I N DE X
receipt in St. Augustine of order for
its surrender, 85; recs. rept. re occup.
of St. Marks, 101; recomds. and
applics. laid before, 50 n.; recomás.:
Hayes as judge, 43 n., Martin as
U. S. marshal, 46 n.; refers to transf.
W. Fla., 135; rept. re organiz. of govt.
of E. and W. Fla., 150–152; salary, 10
n., 16; sends: Bronaugh and Bracken-
ridge to Pensacola with letters to
Span. officials, 38, Call to Pensacola
to arrange occup. St. Marks, 71,
instrs. and other docs. to St. Augus-
tine, 146; signs comm., 105; status as
commr. ceases, 131 n.; status under
act reorganiz. army discussed, 21 n.;
supplies Butler with funds, 33; tenure,
10; to leave Tenn. for Montpelier, 28;
to rept. re occup. Fla., 19; view of
Pres. re policy as executed by, 69, 70;
waits at Blakeley for horses, 39; will
draw on State Dept. for funds, 37;
without baggage and papers, 58.
Jackson, Gov. Andrew, advice solicited
re form of govt. for Fla., 172; address
at ball ment., 238 m.; alleged restricts.
in comm. re levy. taxes, 266, 277;
anxiety re arrival of Gadsden in St.
Augustine, 158; appd. and comma.
govr., 9–11; appoints: Bell act. secy.
and govr. E. Fla., 179, 345, 353, 355,
Brackenridge alcade at Pensacola,
168, Connor clk. of Exec. ct., 499,
Foster justice Escambia Co. ct., 662,
Garnier justice Escambia Co. ct., 662,
Hanham sheriff St. Johns Co., 357,
777, jud. officers, 445, justices Es-
cambia Co. ct., 480, Miller as mayor,
Pensacola, 226–227, Shannon presid.
justice Escambia Co. ct., 493, Worth-
ington act. govr. E. Fla., 353; ap-
proves: admin. of Worthington, 225,
272, Bell's conduct, 303, 304, Richards
as interpreter for Neamathla, 212,
seizure Span. archs., 668, Worthing-
ton's position re civil-military dispute,
225–226; arrival in Nashville: date of,
274, 298, reception, 304; Atty. Genl.
holds, in error re Callava and the
archs., 255–256; authority Capt.
Genl. Cuba conferd. on, 268, 269;
authd. appt. clk. terr. ct. by Worth-
ington, 284; ball given for, 238 m.;
Bell: acts under orders of, 268, authd.
to act as secy. E. Fla., 215, study of
case recomma., 269, to assume powers
as Indian agt., 222–223; Blount guide
to, 502; char. and temper of, dis-
cussed, 255, 256–257; claims right to
exempt U.S. from cost of transport of
Span. troops, 159; clk. of co. ct. rents
blågs. for ct. house in admin. of, 663;
clothes Worthington with author. as
act. govr. E. Fla., 180; comm. as
major genl. terminates, 10 n., 21 n.;
copy of comm. delivered to Worthing-
ton, 177; correspondence: re Callava
affair sent to, 262, sent to Pres., 172,
with Bell sent to Sec. War, 303, with
Eustis sent to Sec. War, 302, with
Fromentin sent to Sec. State, 275,
with McIntosh sent to Sec. War, 278,
with Sec. War sent to DuVal, 518,
with Worthington delivered by Bell,
177, 178; co. cts. estabd. by, 168;
criticized by Pres., 243; criticizes
Pénières, 213 n.; date of: cessation of
comm. in army, 402, complete temp.
organiz. Fla., 274, 275, expir. of term
as govr., 316 n., leaving Fla., 475,
occupying W. Fla., 156; decision
ment. re salary acct. as maj. genl., 40
n.; delegates powers to Walton during
absence, 265; desires early release
from duties in Fla., 207; discusses
char. of land in Fla., 233—234; dispute
with Callava: discussed, 158–160, 184–
189, docs. re sent to, 260, 261, does
not trust, 158, hist. sources re, 189 n.,
orders arrest of, 185; dispute with
Fromentin: Atty. Genl. holds Jackson
in error re, 256, discussed, 174, 250–
257, Fromentin takes oath before,
175, regrets his corresp. not laid
before Cong., 350–351, requests Sec.
State to lay corresp. re, before Cong.,
350–351; docs. recd. from, delivered
to Worthington, 178; employs Rich-
ards as interpreter, 501; expensive
hospitality of, 481; expresses doubt
re visit to St. Augustine, 226; fills
offices in W. Fla., 168; forbids return
of Callava, 230; fVds. to St. Augustine
instrs., ordinances, and comms., 169:
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1049
informed re: appt. of Pénières, 165,
dispute between civil and milit.
powers in E. Fla., 245–246, terr.
judges answer only to Fed. govt., 263;
informs Pres. re measures for govt. of
W. Fla. during absence, 231 n.;
instrs. to: Brooke, 238, Stanton dis-
cussed, 159, Walton re admin. of W.
Fla., 230–231, Walton re arrest of
returning Span. officers ment., 403,
Worthington, 209, Worthington re
Indian rels. placed in hands of agts.,
328; irked at Worthington's absence
from E. Fla., 157–158; jud. powers
discussed, 251, 252,253, 255, 256, 257;
leaves Claiborne, Ala., for Nashville,
265; letters ment. to: Bell, 339, Callava,
160, Edwards, 162, Eustis, 273, Fro-
mentin, 275, McIntosh, 211, Pres.,
274, 403, Sec. State, 158, 172, 231,
260, 261, 262, Sec. War, 210, 212, 232,
278, 279, 518, Walton, 299, 304,
Worthington, 205, 209, 225, 226, 228,
238, 248, 272, 273, 284; letters to:
Bell, 303—304, Brooke, 238, Pres.,
156–164, 274–277, 286, Sec. State,
137–154, 231—237, Sec. War, 205–209,
210–213, 302–303, Walton, 229–231,
Worthington, 133–135, 167–168, 209–
210, 225–226; letters to, from: Bell,
245–247, Butler, 163–167, Pres., 316,
Sec. State, 172–173, 260–262, Sec.
War, 278–279, Shannon, 280–282,
Stanton, 155–156, Walton, 259–260,
298–299, 304–306, Worthington, 193–
196,228–229, 238–241; list of property
delivered to, desired by land commrs.
(W. Fla. Dist.), 772; makes rule re
permit to Span. officials to remain in
W. Fla., 230–231; ment., 176, 472;
nativity, 355; Neamathla visits, 210;
opinion Atty. Genl. reconduct of, 253,
254, 255, 256, 257; opinion prevails
that govt. organiz. under, ceased with
adjourn. of Cong., 456; opinion re: act.
govr. E. Fla. entitled to occupy govt.
house, 304, Butler-Coppinger agree.
as without author., 336, Callava's
attitude, 160, city council entitled to
pub. blóg. if available, 304, civil
power to require troops to enforce
laws, 225, Cong. action re Indians
more effective than treaties, 233,
Dexter and Wanton, 208, DuVal, 160,
effects of perm. div. of Fla., 234,
estab. terr. courts, 236–237, exten.
habeas corpus principle to Fla., 186,
form of perm. govt. for Fla., 233–234,
Fromentin, 160–161, futility of Indian
treaties, 233, Indian affairs in Fla.,
232–233, judiciary for Fla., 236–237,
land and land titles, 235–236, land in
lower peninsula, 233, perm. div. of
Fla., 234, policy in Indian affairs,
226, reduction of army, 162–164,
right of exec. E. Fla. to govt. house,
225–226, right of U. S. marshal to
pub. blag., 304; orders: archs. seized
from Entralgo and Coppinger, 239,
339, 649, 756, 757, 758, 824, 826, Bell
and Worthington to fund. to Sec. State
certified copies lets, re E. Fla. ar-
chives, 335, ment. re rept. on pub.
blågs., 155, re courts ment., 462;
ordinances: appts. under, 646–647,
continued applic. re co. ct., 444, dis-
cussed re co. cts., 437 n., 494, estab.
co. cts. publd., 486, expense of print-
ing, 664, exper. of E. Fla. re naturaliz.
under, 431–433, list of, issued at
Pensacola, 156 n., ment. re bounds.
Pensacola, 319, printed copies sent to
Sec. State, 237, re jury trial not
rescinded, 422, re meet. St. Johns Co.
ct. rescinded, 420, re naturaliz. ment.,
594, sent to St. Augustine, 157, 180;
orig. inventory of arts. surrendered
by Span. to be fwd. to, 177; papers re
fin. crisis in St. Augustine sent to,
301; pay, 316 n.; Pèniéres fails to
confer with, 219–220; prepares to
leave Fla. for Tenn., 213, 220, 226,
229–230, 237, 238, 274; procla. dis-
cussed or ment. re: arrest of any
return. Span. officers, 369, 403, E.
Fla., 179, retention in office of Span.
officials, 179, withdrawal of former
Span. officials, 230–231; pub. blags.:
agrees with view of Pres. re use, 293,
belongs to civil auth. in St. Augustine,
332, concedes right of civil author. to,
273, offered to army officers, 293,
yielded to troops in Pensacola, 304;
recs. docs. re occup. E. Fla., 165;
For identical mames, see index: note, p. 988



1050
I N DE X
recommends: area for settling Indians,
210, 211, Brown for office, 212, clear-
ing titles of fraud, 235–236, concentra-
tion of Indians remaining in Fla., 232,
Cong. action against Span. land
claims, 212, early removal Seminoles
from Fla. to Creek reserv., 206, 209–
210, first grade of govt. similar to La.
Terr., 234, fort at Tampa, 213 n.,
Indian reserve on Appalachicola r.,
232–233, Indian visit to Washington,
211, law rather than treaty for re-
moval of Indians, 206, 207, removal of
Indians from Fla., 211, removal of
recent Indian migrants to Creek na-
tion, 232, scope of law in settling land
titles, 236, seat terr. govt. near
Suwannee r., 234; refuses accept. of
habeas corpus writre Callava, 188–189;
rels. with Indians: authd. to appt.
agt., 209, awaits Pres. orders re, 210,
designates point for concent. in Fla.,
508, expects govt. to order Seminoles
to Creek nation, 209, instrs. ment. to,
re, 220, not present for Seminole conf.,
263, opposes perm. settlement in Fla.,
207–208, pleased at Sec. War approval
of plan to remove, 213 n., promise re
fixed bounds. for Seminoles not exe-
cuted, 501, 503; rept. by, to Sec.
State re transf. and occup. of the
Floridas, 137–154; repts. to, re: affairs
in W. Fla., 259, 305–306, appts. and
gen. conditions in E. Fla., 193–196,
jud. affairs, Escambia Co., 280–281;
resignation: accepted, 350, 368, 369,
publd., 355, reason for, 276, tendered,
275–276, 316; sends: blank comm. to
St. Augustine for comdg officer in
Worthington's absence, 157, comms.
and instrs. to Walton, 230, Hanham
as express to St. Augustine, 167,
recomas. of King to Pres., 286, sched.
pub. property to Dept. State, 983,
984, Sec. State newspaper with ad-
dress to inhabs., 237; signs comms.:
Garnier as justice, 662, mayor and
council St. Augustine, 266, Miller as
mayor of Pensacola, 227; solicits
appt. for Willis, 225; source materials
(unpublished) re aſſairs in Fla. during
leave of, 316 n.; talks with Indians:
delivered, 409, ment., 491, ment. with
chiefs Blount, Nea-Moth-la and Mul-
lato King, 464, sent to Sec. War, 278,
to be explained by act. govr., 305, to
Seminoles incorrectly interpreted, 670,
with Neamathla sent to Sec. War,
210; temp. absence of, 278; transfers
Span. tax system to Fla., 158.
Jackson, Andrew (subsequent to resig.
as govr. Fla.), accounts: as govr. ad-
justed, 368, bal. of funds to be de-
posited in U. S. bank New Orleans,
368, submitted, 364; char. of Inner-
arity refd. to, for comment, 873; criti-
cism of Coppinger, 337–338; declares
Seminoles only renegade Creeks, 720;
employs Blount, 519; friend of Call,
531; informed re reorganiz. govt. in
E. Fla., 365; lets. from Walton or
Worthington to be sent to Sec. State,
368; letters ment. to: Barbour, 351,
Bell, 364, Gadsden, 720, Sec. State,
327, 334, 337, 367, 369, Sec. War, 409,
533, Walton, 347, Worthington, 335,
364; letters to: Pres., 350–351, Sec.
State, 334–344, 364, 719–720; letters
to, from: Butler, 344, Sec. State, 327,
367–368, Walton, 347–348, Worthing-
ton, 364–366; ment., 872; offers sug-
gestions re treaty with Seminoles,
719–720; postage on lets. to, pd. by
p. m. at Nashville, 631; proposal re
loc. Indian reserv. rejected, 748; reads
newspaper acct. of Cong. debate on
his policy, 351; recomas.: Davison as
U. S. marshal, 591 n., estab. Indian
reserv. on both sides of Apalachicola
r., 720, milit. post on Tampa Bay,
720; rept. to, re affairs W. Fla., 347–
348; requests: Sec. State to close his
accts. as govr., 351, suspens. of resig.,
351, to be heard by Cong., 351; seizure
of archs.: corresp. cited re, 343 n., ex-
plains to Sec. State reason for, 335-
343, query by Sec. State re, 327, reply
to protest of Span. minister re, 335-
343, Worthington encls. state. re, 365;
sends lets. of Richards and Doyle to
Sec. War, 409.
Jackson, Mrs. Andrew, 57, 71,282, 348;
illness of, 277.
Jackson, Andrew, Jr., 282.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1051
Jackson, Clark, grand juror, 613 n.,
614 n., 790, 888; signer, 893; witness,
614 n.
Jackson, Rep. Edward B., of Va.,
recomds. Murray as U. S. Atty. (E.
Fla. dist.), 414 n.
Jackson, H., signer, 321.
Jackson, Capt. John Jay, bears DuVal's
let. to Sec. State, 652.
Jackson, Peter L., recomd. as survn.
pub. lands, 943 n.
Jackson County, Alvarez appd. keeper
archs. of, 575 n.; grand jurors from,
936; in first brigade militia, 659 n.;
petit jurors from, 937; residence of:
Bright, 859, Russ, 859.
Jacksonville, characterized, 476; loc. of,
477; on Jefferson, Ga.-St. Augustine
post route, 846; orig. name of, 366 n.,
633 n.; petit jurors from, 823, 934;
post office to be opened at, 846; pub.
rd. from Ga. to St. Augustine crosses
r. at, 477; recoma. as port of entry,
476, 477–478; rq. from St. Marys to
pass thru, 634; sup. ct. held at, 822,
933. See also Cowford.
Jail (calabozo), needed in Pensacola,
676; Span., in decay, 676.
Jamaica, ships from ports of, pass Fla.
Keys, 388.
James, James (?), petit juror, 963 n.
James, William, estate of, 764.
Jamison, John, petit juror, 613 n.; wit-
ness, 614 n.
Jaquare, James, signer, 367.
Jarrison, see Jerrison.
Javech, A., signer, 287.
Jefferson (Ga.), distance to St. Augus-
tine, 487; post route to St. Augustine:
authd., 367 n., contract for, 900,
opened, 846, to be conveyed by land,
833, urged thru Coleraine and Cow-
ford, 366; postal schedule to St.
Augustine, 487.
Jefferson, Thomas, interest in Baker, 56.
Jeffries, George, Lord Ch. Justice of
Eng., note re, 438.
Jenkins, Charles, appointed: coll. cus-
toms, Apalachicola, 658, survi. and
inspector customs, Pensacola, 52; ar-
rives in Pensacola, 283; considers
appt. as survr. and inspector customs,
Pensacola, 283; let. ment. to Sec.
Treas., 283; note re, 52; orders to, re
timber depreds. discussed, 383; sent
to St. Johns r., 383.
Jenkins, Frederick, appd. survr. and
inspect. revenue, St. Johns, 658.
Jenkins, James, signer, 287.
Jenkins, Nathan, signer, 322.
Jennings, Joel, signer, 858.
Jenwright, Isaac, grand juror, 790, 888;
signer, 893.
Jerimeno (?), F. de, signer, 371.
Jerrison (Jarrison), John, grand juror,
614 n.; signer, 287; testimony in
Gerrish assault case, 885; witness,
614 n., 889.
Jerrison, John, Jr., grand juror, 790,
889; signer, 287, 288, 893.
Jesup, Thomas S., see Quarter master
General. -
Johnson, Rep. Francis, of Ky., recomas.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n.
Johnson, Sen. Henry, of La., recomds.
Overton as land commr., 428 n.
Johnson, James, signer, 287.
Johnson, John, signer, 350, 450.
Johnson, Rep. John T., of Ky., let. to
Anderson, 807; recomds.: Bradford
as land commr., 718 n., DuVal as
govr., 372 n., Luckett as land commr.,
849 n., Sebree as U. S. marshal, 591
n.; requests settle. of accts. of Hanna,
Sebree, and White, 807; to be in-
formed re mode of payt. for repair.
pub. blag., 771.
Johnson, Martin, signer, 310, 315.
Johnson, Sen. Richard M., of Ky., accts.
of Gaither and Hynes sent to, for
settle., 566–567; let. from Blair ment.,
949; let. ment. to White, 406; let. to,
from DuVal, 566–567; recomas.; Du-
Val as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n., Luckett as land commr.,
849 n., Moore as terr. secy., 44 n.,
Overton as land commr., 428 n.,
Sebree as U. S. marshal, 591 n.;
solicits pay of Hynes, 615.
Johnson, S. S., signer, 328.
Johnson, William, signer, 322.
Johnston, Charles, capt. of the Florida,
88.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1052
1 N DE X
Johnson, General Washington, of Ind.,
recoma. as judge, W. Fla., 317 n.
Jones, Abner, petit juror, 611.
Jones, Allen, signer, 321.
Jones, Edward, ch. clk., Treas. dept.,
let. to Ezekiel Jones, 942.
Jones, Ezekiel, appd. and comma. lieut.
revenue cutter Florida, 942.
Jones, John, takes naturaliz. oath, 434.
Jones, Joseph, signer, 322.
Jordan, see Lordan.
Journal of Executive proceedings (W.
Fla.), comms. and instrs. to Jackson
recorded in, 230.
Jourolman, Robert D., petit juror, 799;
signer, 530.
Juan, a slave, 324.
Judicial records, proposed to be left in
St. Augustine, 105.
Julington, grand jurors from, 798.
Jumping Off Creek, grand jurors from,
822.
Jury trial, continued from Span. regime,
151.
Justices of the peace and quorum,
added compens. asked in Escambia
Co., 281–282; added to co. ct., 151;
adherence to act legis. council re
duties urged, 790; appt. of, 121, 132,
133 n., 354 n., 438, 546, 662; blank
comms. for, delivered to Worthing-
ton, 178; depletion of, in St. Johns
Co., 441.
Kearney, Maj. James, topog. engin.,
ordered to complete drawings Pensa-
cola harbor, 839; surveys St. Marys
r., 808; withdraws from mapping of
Pensacola, 808.
Kearney, Lt. Comdr. Lawrence, com-
mands the Enterprize, 198 n., 631;
plans to unite with Ramage for pur-
suit of pirates, 259; sum pa. to, for
passengers from Washington to Pen-
sacola, 631.
Keeper of archives, act ment. auth. appt.
of, 758; appt. of, 361, 575 n. See also
Archives.
Kehoe, James, signer, 287.
Kelley, Rober, signer, 323.
Kelly, Sen. William, of Ala., recomils.
Murphy as land commr., 850 n.
Kemp, Daniel, grand juror, 934; signer,
477.
Kemp, Elias, signer, 478.
Kent, Rep. Joseph, of Md., let. to Pres.,
35–36; recomas.: Allen as land commr.,
917, DuVal as govr., 372 n., Worthing-
ton for office, 35–36, 413 n.; state. re
seizure of archs. sent to, 365.
Kentucky (State), Cong. deleg. recomás.:
Blair as sup. judge, 954 n., DuVal
as govr., 372 n., Luckett as land
commr., 51; DuVal: appd. from, 51,
55, native of, 42, 356, returns to, on
private business, 456, 534, 536, 538,
539, 558, 559, 561, 562, 583, 599, 627,
852–853; Gaither: native of, 284,
visits, 680; Hynes native of, 360;
Luckett appd. from, 849; ment., 4,
540, 946; militia obtainable from, 527;
petition by trustees of Deaf and Dumb
Inst. of, for land grant in Fla., 900–
902; Sebree: appd. U. S. marshal
from, 590, to visit, 771.
Ker, John, petit juror, 799.
Kerr, Thompson, signer, 288.
Key Largo, light house recomd. at, 388;
wreckers operate out of, 382.
Keyser, Charles C., petit juror, 612, 613
n.; prosecutor, signs bill of indict.,
888; witness before grand jury, 614 n.,
888, 889.
Keyser, John, appd. alderman, Pensa-
cola, 131; signer, 309, 314.
Keyser, Joseph C., grand juror, 613 n.,
896; petit juror, 614 n.; signs bond for
ct. appear. of Reilly, 884; testimony
in Gerrish assault case, 885. See also
Palmer and Keyser.
Keysoe, John, signer, 318.
Key Taverno, wreckers operate out of,
382.
Key Vaca (Vacas; Waccas; Vaccus), al-
leged murder at, instead of Key West,
821; disorders on, 713; field piece sent
to,713; guard lefton, to preserve order,
713; inspect. of customs recomd. for,
852, 921; murder on, 713; schooner
with contraband detained at, 713;
wrecking center of foreign vessels, 706.
Key West (Bone Key; Cayo Huesso;
Thompson's Island), absence of coll.
customs, 707; alleged murder at, 821;
For identical names, see indea, note, p. 988



I N DE X
1053
appt. of: coll. customs, 615 n., dep.
coll., 615 n., 658; Ayres approved as
inspect. customs, 615; believed
healthy, 728, 775–776, 780; blag. for
custom house rented, 920; commer.
and naval import. of, 411–412; con-
tiguous to n. Cuba ports, 411; cus-
toms coll. discussed, 460, 462; custom
house business suspended, 715; cus
toms office estabd., 686; death of dep.
coll., 707, 715; descrip. and resources
of, 352, 411–412; distance to: Cape
Florida, 685, Havana, 352, 362, 411,
Matanzas, 411, Old Mattacombe
Island, 684; few vessels arrive and
depart, 707; instrs. to navy comdr. re
exam. and survey of, 362-363; in rel.
to: Cuban ports, 353, Gulf of Mex.,
412, West Indies, 353; landing of
coffee at, rumored, 715–716; light-
house urged, 571; memorial for estab.
port of entry at, 352–353; merchants
plan to settle at, 353, 412; midway
betw. Dry Tortugas and Cape Flor-
ida, 412; occup. by U. S. authd., 363;
ownership discussed, 382–383; Por-
ter's squadron based on, 705 n.;
purchd. by Simonton, 352 n.; recoma.
as port of entry, 412; renamed
“Thompson Island”, 385; rept. re
affairs at, 775–776; return of coll. rev.
to, ordered, 715–716; revenue cutter
Florida at, 728, 942; safe depot for
wrecked ships, 412; sale of, discussed,
461–462; salt ponds on, 353; seat of
naval vessels, 845; seat of pirates and
wreckers, 352; strict inspect. of com-
merce at, ordered, 716; two marine
officers on, 780; value of, 352–353;
Worthington urges U. S. possess. of,
383; yellow fever at, 723, 776; yellow
fever not prevalent at, 728.
Kigless, Capt. M., master of the Hen-
rietta, ships stores from New Orleans
to Pensacola, 915.
Kindelan y Oregon, Sebastian, Span.
govr., E. Fla., land grants ment.,
580; lets. ment., 829, 945; query re
corresp. with Mitchell, 745.
King, Rufus, minister to England, 633;
procures land records from England,
633.
King, Gov. William, of Maine, appd.
commr. re claims against Spain, 8 n.,
56.
King, Col. William, recoma. as: successor
to Jackson sent to Pres., 286–290,
terr. govr., 469 m.
King, William, claim of, for timber cut
by U. S. troops, 931.
King, Sen. William R., of Ala., recomás.:
Murphy as land commr., 850 n.,
Robinson as U. S. marshal, 591 n.
King, Col. Willis, surveys bounds. of
Pensacola, 319.
King Heijahs, a negro settle., 464.
Kingsley, George, recomd. as member
legis. council, 423 m.
Kingsley, Zephaniah, appd. and comma.
member legis. council, 640–641;
recomd. for legis. council, 407, 616;
signer, 566.
King's road, new authd. rd. follows, 634;
origin, 366 n.; sect. of proposed post
route, 366.
Kinney, John, Jr., recomd. as coll.,
Pensacola, 4 n.
Kirby, Edmund, aid-de-camp to comd.
genl., let. to Brooke, 722; signs orders,
785.
Kirkpatrick, Daniel, signer, 322.
Knapp, Jacob, of La., solicits appt. as
dist. atty., 50 n.
Knight, Britton, petit juror, 823, 934.
Kunly, John, signer, 292.
Lacy, Claburn (Claiborne), petit juror,
937.
Lady Washington, a sloop, believed lost
in storm, 489; members legis. council
sail from St. Augustine aboard, 489.
Lain, Jesse, signer, 478.
Lake George, beacon for s. end of,
urged, 571; Dexter resides near, 212;
Indian settle. above, 464; ment., 285.
Lamb, Daniel, signer, 288.
Lancaster, Joseph B., appd. asst. Secy.
land ba., 947; brother-in-law to Blair,
proposed appt. to staff of land
commrs., 946–947.
Lancaster County (Pa.), Reynolds from,
415.
Lance, a slave, 324.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1054
I N DE X
Land, acts of Cong. re ascertain. claims
and title8 to: amend. act, 424, 425 n.,
553 n., 635, 639, discussed, 292 n.,
424 n., ment. re donations, 820 n.,
text of original act, 424–428; appt.
first bd. commrs., for ascertain. claims
and titles, 428-429; add. bd. commrs.
recomd., 619–622; bill ment. to amend
act re claims, 619; Butler requests
surrender of Span. titles to, 86; cer-
tain inhabs. of U. S. advoc. legality of
Span. grants, 382; char. in interior of
terr., 848; char. of Span. grants, 235;
citation of sources re work of land
commrs. for E. Fla., 946 n., 947 n.,
948 n., 948 n., 950 n.; claims of Brit.
subjects arising from cession of Fla.
to Spain (1783) discussed, 399–400;
claims to, alarm Indians, 491;
commrs. disagree re rules for estab. of
claims to, 945—950; complaint of St.
Augustine lot-holders, 759–760; con-
flict in claims, 941; cost of adjusting
claims, 426; docs. re titles in E. Fla.
held by Coppinger, 165; duties of
claimants, 637; early settle. claims
needed to encourage immig., 524–525;
early survey and sale of pub., urged,
790; estab. add. comm. to sit at St.
Augustine, 553 n.; evid. re claims in
St. Augustine archs., 734–735; grants
by Span. govrs. discussed, 580, 581;
grants viewed illegal without consent
of Indians, 270–271; indef. delay in
sale of pub., 553 n.; intent of govt. in
extent of pub., in Fla., 400; Jackson
recomas. re clearing titles of fraud,
235–236; laws re not in hands of
commrs. on claims, 485; legis. council
denied power over pub., 392; memorial
to permit settle. where no question of
titles is involved, 571; mode of dis-
posal under Span. rule, 621; modif. of
laws re titles to, urged, 789–790; note
re proposed grant to Ky. Deaf and
Dumb Inst., 902 n.; original records:
missing, 632–633, preserved in Ha-
vana, 516, re ownership proposed to
be left in St. Augustine, 105; papers
and titles to be returned, 231; persons
claiming under Span. grants not
allowed to occupy, without special
permit, 512; petition by Ky. Deaf and
Dumb Inst. for grant in Fla., 900–901;
petition for confirm. of claims ob-
tained prior to Span. cession, 296–298;
probable fraud in Span. claims, 152;
queries re: date of grant to church,
492, loc. of treaties and other docs.
bearing on grants of, 455-456, royal
orders, corresp., reguls., and instrs.
Span. govt. relative to grants of,
825–827; question of relief of claim-
ants from expense, 605–606; recomds.
re settling titles to, 236; request for
confirm. of claims, 290–292; royal
orders of 1790, 1815, and 1817 dis-
cussed, 825, 826–827; rules for determ.
legal claimants, 425–427; survey and
sale of, authd., 638; testimony of
claimants questioned, 945; timber
(see under Timber); titles discussed,
60; tract granted for pub. blógs. in
new terr. capital, 853 n.; uncertain
state of titles, 379; uncertain titles
obstacle to settle. on, 570–571;
urgency for early settle. of claims to,
580–581; work of commrs. for settle.
claims discussed, 580–582. See also
East Florida Land District; Keeper
of Archives; Land Commissioners;
Timber; West Florida Land District.
Land Commissioners (single board),
added bd. recomd., 580–581, 619–622;
agree that land claims must be pre-
sented in province where grant was
made, 564; appt. by Pres., 428-429;
author. for appt. by Pres., 424; be-
lieve orig. land titles taken to Cuba,
516; bal. formed, 484; cannot com-
plete task in W. Fla. in time set by
law, 563; comms. to, sent to DuVal,
429 n.; compens., 424; composition
discussed, 236; divided re interp. of
law, 619–620; duties and powers de-
fined, 425–427; effect of yellow fever on
operations of: work impeded, 564,
580, 623, work suspended, 552–553;
Gaither recomd. as, 284, 300; inhabs.
E. Fla. urge estab. of second ba, to
hasten settle. of claims, 571; Law
recoma. as, 300; means of inform.
scarce, 485; need authen. copy of
Spain-G. Brit. treaty, 485; Preston's
non-arrival, 623; recomd. change in
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1055
land act re claims, 553; recomd. for
appt. as, 284, 300; recomd. re exten.
of sessions at Pensacola and St.
Augustine, 564; rept. of prog., 623;
result of meet. in Pensacola, 541;
Reynolds solicits appt. as, 415; rules
for determ. legal"claimants, 424–427;
tenure, 425; to appt. secy., 425; two,
at work in Pensacola, 489; vacancy,
515; White solicits appt. as, 406;
work discussed, 580–582; Worthing-
ton urges appt. of men of integrity,
383. See also Ware, Nathaniel A.,
and Overton.
Land Commissioners (E. Fla. Land
Dist.), act ment. estab., 571; appt. of,
656, 805–806, 958; appt. solicited,
917; ba. authd. to sit in E. Fla., 425
n., 636; compens., 637; demand for E.
Fla. archs. resisted by keepers, 759;
demand orig. docs. from keeper of
archs., 730; dispute with keeper of
archs., 755–759; dispute with Reynolds
and Alvarez re possess. of land
records, 729–731; duties proposed for
secy. of, 825, 826–827, 828; failure to
possess E. Fla. archs., criticized, 824;
Hamilton opposed as, 703, 704–705;
let. ment. to Hamilton from majority,
949; let. to, from Brent, 734–735;
majority charged with evasion and
misrepres., 947; need for action from,
941; no alter. of duties or powers
recomd. to Cong., 950–951; note re
prog. of, 656; private let. ment. from
majority to Sec. Treas., 946, 947;
proposals re procedure and reguls. of
business, 825–828; reasons for rift
betw. Hamilton and other commrs.,
945–950; recomd. re rept. of, 966;
recomas. cited for appt. to, 958 n.;
rept. and resol. re repts. to Cong.,
950–951; request transf. of pub. docs.
transfö. by Coppinger, 722; resol.
ordered papers retd. to archs., 746;
rift in, 824; salary of secy., 948;
selects. from archs. made for, 903;
tenure, 656; vacancy, 917. See also
Hamilton, Alexander; West Florida
Land District.
Land Commissioners (W. Fla. Land
Dist.), add. claims filed with, 847;
appt. of, 808–809, 849–850; desire full
bd., 847; desires QMG send copy of
schedules pub. property ceded by
Span., 983–984; duties, 637; certifs.
ment. re filing of land claims, 932;
first bd. appd. to continue for W. Fla.,
636; inability to proceed due to ab-
sence of members, 718; let. ment. to
Sec. State, 982; letters to: QMG, 983–
984, Sec. State, 772, 785, 846–847,
982–983; need sched. pub. property
in W. Fla. ceded to Jackson, 983;
private claims made to, covered with
pub. bligs., 983; query by, reloc. of
list of pub. property surrend. by
Span., 772; recomd. Hunter as land
commr., 846; rept. few orig. titles
found in W. Fla., 516; request: copy
of Span. ordin. of 1781, reland grants,
785, proofs of powers of Span. govrs.
re land grants, 785; sess. to continue
beyond date of legal closing, 679;
vacancy, 679, 846.
Landerol (Carderol '!), Jose, signer, 814.
Lanman, Sen. James, of Conn., rec-
omds. J. L. Smith as govr., 469 m.
Lannier, Hardy, petit juror, 935.
Lardan, F., signer, 323.
Lasiter, Brinkley W., petit juror, 937.
Lathrop, Rep. Samuel, of Mass., rec-
omds. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Latouche (La Touch), Louis, grand
juror, 961; signer, 760.
Laura (?), Domingo, signer, 289.
Laurence, William, signer, 7.62.
Lavallé, Carlos, signer, 310, 315.
Lavallé, Eugenio, foreman grand jury,
790, 872, 888, 895; grand juror, 613
n., 614 n., 896; state. in support of
Steele, 895; signer, 310, 893; signs
grand jury indict., 890.
Lavalle, Julian, grand juror, 613 n.;
signer, 310, 315.
Law, Edmund, acct. for rec. archs., 596;
alcalde, 361; alderman, St. Augustine,
358; appa.: commr. to rec.archs., 362,
j. p., 361, keeper of archs., 361, mem-
ber legis. council, 422, notary, 361,
probate judge, 361, recorder of deeds,
361, reg. of wills, 361; archs. in Fla.
delivered to, 687; attends legis. coun-
cil at Pensacola, 687; believes act of
For identical names, see indea, note, p. 988



1056 I N DE X
1822 abrogated powers E. Fla. offi-
cials, 443; chang. opinion re legality
of co. ct., 441, 442, 443–444, 445;
commr. to take over E. Fla. archs.,
420, 541, 593; expresses doubt re
existence of co. ct., 442; joins Bell and
Forbes to present acct. for services,
541; leaves archs. in custody of private
person, 687; let. to Worthington, 420;
loose admin. of archs. by, 687; mem-
ber legis. council; arrives in St. Augus-
tine from Pensacola, 529, sal. and
mileage pd., 630, 631, signs memorial,
528, tenure, 423; nativity, 358, 361;
on comm. to seize Span. archs., 667;
pay as judge, St. Johns Co. ct., 361 m.;
proposed let. of resig. to DuVal, 443,
444–445; recs. compens. for service as
commr. to seize Span. archs., 674;
recs. power atty. to collect sums due
Bell and Forbes, 668; recoma. as: land
commr., 300, member legis. council,
407; recomás.: Hanham as U. S. mar-
shal, 639 n., Shomo as U. S. marshal,
591 n.; rept. re status of Span. archs.,
E. Fla., 420; sails from St. Augustine
to Pensacola, 489; signer, 350, 367,
401, 448, 450, 529; willing to accept
appt. as land commr., 300.
Law, James, signer, 292.
Law, John, baliff, E. Fla., 356; death of,
668; nativity, 356; power of atty. to
settle accts. re taking over E. Fla.
archs., 541, 668.
Law, Paul, signer, 292.
Lawrence, John, signer, 287.
Lawrence, John H., petit juror, 963 n.
Lawson, Charles, recomas. Washington
as survi., 943 n.
Lear, William, let. ment. to PMG, 290;
let. to, from PMG, 290; mail contrac-
tor, 290; request for increase of com-
pens. denied, 290; signer, 288.
Leary, Humphry, signer, 477.
LeBaron, Charles, Jr., signer, 289.
Le Conte, John, let. to, from Ch. Engr.,
729; order to repair to Fla. re marking
St. Augustine-Pensacola rd., 729.
Lee, Edwin, of Norfolk, Va., mail for
Ayres to be sent in care of, 921.
Lee, Francis, signer, 477.
Lee, John, signer, 322.
Lee, John E., signer, 287.
Leghlaficksico, Indian chief, meets
Wright at St. Marks, 578.
Legislative Council, acts fund. to Sec.
State to be laid before Cong., 561, 599;
acts passed, discussed or ment. re: estab.
cir. cts., 725, keeper of archs., 578,
organiz. of militia, 529 m., 658, 665,
721, taxes, 572, 725, 771; acts opposed
by inhabs.: estab. cir. cts., 572, elec-
tions, 543–544, qualif. soldiers to vote
in terr. deleg. elec., 572, taxes, 565,
572, 624–625; acts vetoed by Cong.:
taxes, 572, 771, wrecked property, 815
n.; adjourns to house of Gonzalez,
557; amends. to act of 1822 discussed,
392 n.; appts. to: by Pres., 391, 422–
423, 460–461, 490 m., 640–641, 913,
criticized, 803, 833, nomins. for, 859,
poll taken for recomds. for, 803–804,
recomds. for, 407, 415, 448–450, 490,
616, 629, to be from Fla., 417; authd.
to sell land granted for pub. blógs. in
new capital, 853 m.; committees
formed to plan legis. program, 677;
compens., 395; compos., 391; contin.
of sess. discussed, 510; copy of acts
sent to St. Augustine, 663; duty of
contracting to print laws devolves on,
561; difficulty in securing quorum of
members, 643, 682; estab. of inferior
cts. by, 523, 524; expense of, dis-
cussed, 535; first meeting: adjourned,
456, date of adjourn., 535, described,
490 n., near end, 531, to be in Pensa-
cola, 392; first nomins. to, recalled,
422 n.; forbidden to tax pub. lands,
541; house ordered rented for, 493 n.;
journal of proceeds. discussed, 490 m.;
legis. by, called for by Cong., 584;
locus of enrolled acts, 535 m.; mem-
bers: before whom oath is taken, 394,
comms. not recd., 456, comms. recd.,
470, 534, comms. sent to DuVal, 913
n., confirmed by Senate, 640 n., from
St. Augustine believed lost at sea,
489, 490 n., from St. Augustine sail
aboard Lady Washington for Pensa-
cola, 489, legal resid. discussed, 422
n., memorial for gen. elec. of, 572,
mileage and salaries, 630, 631, privi-
leges, 395, tenure, 423, 641, 913;
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1057
memorial ment, re wrecked property,
814 n.; ment., 904; no blags. avail.
for meet. of, 471; no funds to pay
expenses of, 471, 532; no powers: to
interfere with land claims, 392, to
tax pub. lands, 392, over disposal of
lands, 392; not organized, 511; no.
members present, 508; organiz. not
complete because of: absence of govr.,
479, lack of quorum, 475; powers
defined, 391; prepares code of laws,
508; proposes Army Engr. Corps:
mark Pensacola-St. Augustine rq.,
522, select suitable site for terr. capi-
tal, 522–523; public. of acts of: acct.
discussed, 663, 699, approved by
Cong., 645, bills to be pd. by Fed.
Govt., 537–538, 728, by Gould, 585,
787, discussed, 663–664, in the Florid-
ian, 743, in pamphlet form, 535 n.,
no funds for, 535; query re length of
sess., 470; recomds. Call and Hernan-
dez as brig. genl. militia, 529; rejects
DuVal nomin. of Hanham for second
term as sheriff, St. Johns Co., 727;
resid. qualif., 640 n.; resigs. from, 489;
resol. approves DuVal's conduct, 715;
Rua and Noriega comma. to, 510;
seat of govt. located by act of, 853–
854; session at St. Augustine: begins,
687, DuVal not to attend, 555–556,
lack of quorum at, 677, second to be
held, 536, 537, 665; summoned to meet
at Tallahassee, 855; taxes levied by,
vetoed by Cong., 788; to fix place of
meet., 392; to hold annual sessions,
392; to meet in new capital, 907; un-
certain meet. time of, 852; vacancy,
682; Walton to return at Pensacola
at adjourn., 688; White accepts appt.
to, 406.
Legrand, -, signer, 289.
Leima, Desiderio, signer, 310, 315.
Lemons, future growth in Fla. predicted,
581.
Lesassier, C. S., signer, 625.
Lesley, William, signer, 761.
Levinas, John W., grand jury witness,
889; signer, 323; testimony in Gerrish
assault case, 885. See also Levinus,
John W.
Levingston (Livingston; Livingstone),
William, appd. member ba. of pilot-
age, St. Augustine, 121; depos. cited
re Hamilton, 694; grand juror, 963 n.;
petit juror, 799, 962; signer, 350, 401,
762, 858; signs rept. for St. Augustine
council, 205; takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Levinus, John, witness, 614 n.
Levinus, John W., petit juror, 613 n.
See also Levinas, John W.
Levy, Danil M., signer, 322.
Levy, George, takes naturaliz. oath, 434.
Levy, Moses Elias, Bell opposes license
to, for purch. of livestock, 410; case
re naturaliz. of, 431, 434; grand juror,
961; note re, 431; petit juror, 799;
signer, 449, 450, 858.
Lewis, Addin, appd. temp. coll. cus-
toms, Pensacola, 199 n.; appts.
Brownejohn inspect. customs, 199;
opens Pensacola customs house, 199;
repts. small amt. property in W. Fla.
at time of cession, 283.
Lewis, Charles, signer, 760.
Libel suits, 959.
Lighthouses, appt. of keepers discussed,
651 n.; estab.: discussed, 571 n., for
Pensacola authd., 650, for St. Au-
gustine urged, 295; import. stressed,
523; law passed re erect. of, 523 m.;
memorial to Cong. urging erect. of,
571; note re corresp. pertain. to, on
Fla. coast, 650–651; recoma. for Fla.
reef, 411.
Limes, future growth in Fla. predicted,
581.
Lincoln, Luther, appd. branch pilot,
Pensacola, 131; note re, 131.
Lindsley, A. B., appd. survr. and
inspect. revenue, St. Marks, 658.
Lines (Ramparts), The, under U. S.
army control, 201.
Liquor, illegal sale to Indians, 495, 496,
673, 883; no ordin. against sale to
Indians, 495; order for arrest of seller
of, to Indians, 883; sale to Indians
prohibd., 603.
Litchfield (Conn.), A. Smith formerly
of, 363.
Little, Rep. Peter, of Md., recomas.
Worthington for office, 35 n.
Little Bayou, bridge needed over, 653.
Littlejohn, John, of Ky., recomds.
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
301 867–57 68



1058
I N DE X
Little St. Marys River, grand jurors
from, 822; petit jurors from, 935.
Live oak, cut for naval use, 430–431;
illegal cut. of, 370, 375–376, 583–584,
809; manner of transp. illegally cut,
370; ship. of, ment., 693; shipped
from Pensacola, 791; ships laden
with, at Pensacola, 701. See also
Red cedar; Timber.
Llambais, Juan, signer, facing 702.
Llambias (Llambais), Bartolo, petit
juror, 962; signer, facing 702, 762.
Llanza, John, signer, 814, 816, 819.
Lloyd, Sen. Edward, of Md., ment.,
824; recomas.: Luckett as land
commr., 849 n., Worthington for
office, 35 n.
Lloyd, Sen. James, of Mass., ment., 824.
Lloyd, William, petit juror, 937.
Lock-taw-me-coochy, Indian chief, 463.
Loftin, William M., signer, 310, 315.
London (England), cedar trees alleged
to be sent to, 384; inquiry at, re
missing land docs. requested, 400;
ment., 56.
Long, G., signer, 322.
Long, John M., signer, 323.
Long, Richard H., recomd. as survr.
pub. lands, 943 n.
Long swamp, Indian settle. near, 464.
Look-out Tower (St. Augustine), no
recoma. re, 204.
Lopez, Andres, signer, 761, 813, 816,819.
Lopez, Andres Lino, signer, 310, 315.
Lopez, A. G., grand juror, 822.
Lopez, Ciriaco (Siriaes), grand juror,
613 n.; petit juror, 612; signer, 289,
309, 314.
Lopez, Domingo, signer, 310, 315.
Lopez (Lopis; Slopis), Francisco, petit
juror, 612; signer, 625.
Lopez, Jose, signer, 814, 816.
Lopez, Justo, signer, facing 702, 761.
Lopez, Joseph, takes naturaliz. oath,
434; signer, 819.
Lopis (Lopez 2), Francisco S., signer,
288, 310.
Lordan (Jordan 2), Jeremiah, signer,
288.
Lorenso, Juan, signer, 762.
Loring, Reuben, grand juror, 963 n.;
petit juror, 961; signer, 858, 986.
Louderback (Lauderback),
(John), petit juror, 611.
Louisiana (French), act ment. for occup.
of, 7 n., occup. problem similar to
Fla., 16.
Louisiana (Spanish), char. of rule in,
621; ment., 150, 151; survir, sells
official records, 94.
Louisiana (State), compared with Fla.
re presence of good land, 848; Fro-
mentin appd. from, 51, 55; milit.
force at Pensacola important to, 527,
528; militia obtainable from, 527.
Louisiana District, acts ment. re: adjust.
land claims in, 172, estab. of, 172.
Louisiana Territory, acts ment. re: ad-
just. land claims in, 173, extend.
powers of survi'. genl. in, 172; confirm.
land claims discussed, 291, 296; pol.
toward old inhabs. of, ment., 508;
recomd. as pattern for Fla. govt., 234.
Louisville (Ky.), Yancey sails to, from
New Orleans, 686.
Lovatte (Lavolette), Eugenio (Eugene),
petit juror, 612.
Love, Alexander, cancelled appt. as
j. p., Pensacola, 132.
Love, Charles, petit juror, 935; signer,
478, 816.
Love, C., signer, 814.
Love, Thomas, signer, 321.
Lowe, Fernandez, signer,
816, 817.
Lowe, Horatio, signer, 478, 813, 816.
Lowe, John, acct. as court bailiff, 596;
signer, 450.
Lowe, John T., appd. j. p., St. Augustine
(lower dist. St. Marys r.), 121; signer,
478, 566, 813, 816.
Lowe, Thomas, signer, 814.
Lowe, Thomas, signer, 814.
Low (Loo) . Key, armed schooner an-
chored at, 719.
Lowther, Burben L., petit juror, 935.
Low-Walla Village, Indian settle. from
Coosa r., 463.
Lucas, John B. C., of Mo., comm. as
land commr. sent to, 712 n.; declines
appt., 712 n.
Luckett, Craven P., appd. and commi.
land commr. (W. Fla. dist.), 849–850;
Joseph
813, 814,
For identical names, see indez mote, p. 988



I N DE X
1059
McDonell (MDonell), William, signer,
814, 816, 819.
McDowell, E., signer, 901.
McDuffie, Rep. George, of S.C.,
recomas.: Murphy as land commr.,
850 n., Steele as U. S. atty. (E. Fla.
dist.), 414 n.
McGilvary, A. H., auctioneer, 361;
declines appt. as j. p., 359; nativity,
359, 361; resigns as auctioneer, 361.
McGonegle (McGonegl), John, signer,
322.
McGregor, John, act. inspect. customs,
Pensacola, consents to land dom.
slaves, 876; coll. customs, Pensacola,
charge against Steele for non-prosec.
of Davidson, 911 n.; petit juror, 611;
witness, 614 n.
McHardy, Robert, loc. of plant. of,
495–496; unlicensed trader on plant.
of, 495. See also McHardy v. Saave-
dra.
McHardy v. Saavedra, case ment., 441;
case sent to new sup. ct. under new
govt. act, 440; opinion of Worthing-
ton re, ment., 442, 445; trial sus-
pended, 438, 440.
McIntire, Alexander, assignee of: mem-
ber legis. council, 630, Miller, 631.
McIntosh, John H., et al., v. U. S.
discussed, 946.
McIntosh, William, interfer. of, with
Fla. Indians, 305; leader Creek band,
warned to return to Ga., 211; let. to,
from Jackson sent to Sec. War, 278;
reputed chief of depred. Indians, 126;
Sec. War comment re raid in E. Fla.,
164.
McIntosh, –, act. coll. customs, Key
West, 921 n.
McKee, Rep. John, of Ala., recomas.
Murphy as land commr., 850 n.
McKenney, Thomas L., appa. chief of
Indian bureau, 964 n.
McKenny, H. F., signer, 289.
McKenzie, Indian chief, 464.
McKibbin, James, of S. C., recomd. as
U. S. Atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 50 n., 414 n.
McLane, Rep. Louis, of Del., explains
reason for passage of act prohib. cut.
timber in Fla., 370; let. ment. to Sec.
Navy, 372; let. to Sec. Navy, 370–371.
nativity, 849 n.; recomas. ment. for
appt. of, 849 n.; recomds. T. White
as U. S. marshal, 957 n., signs let.,
983, 984; solicits appt. as land commr.,
849 n.
Lucy Ann, chartered vessel, arrival in
Pensacola, 147.
Lugaya, Pablo, signer, 625.
Luna, Domingo, signer, 814, 816, 819.
Lyman, Capt. William, retires, 22.
Lynch, Patrick, appa. secy. to archs.
commrs., 362, 593; nativity, 360;
surveyor, 360; takes naturaliz. oath,
434; signer, 350, 566; signs rept. for
St. Augustine council, 205.
Lymz, U. S. schooner, cruise on w.
coast, 39 n.
Lytle, Thomas, appa. and comma.
member legis. council, 423; non-
arrival of, 490; tenure, 423.
Mabrity (Mabrité), Miguel (Michael),
signer, 813, 816, 819.
Mabrity, -, atty. for lot holders, 760.
McCaskill, Finlay, signer, 321.
McCaskill, Peter, signer, 321.
McClean, Paul, signer, 288, 323.
McClintock, Lt. William L., q. m., Ft.
St. Marks, accts. re express to Ft.
Mitchell to be sent to, 224.
McColl, John, signer, 292.
McCoskry (McCrosky), Dr. Charles N.,
army surgeon, advises withdrawal of
troops from Ft. St. Marks, 218;
ordered to move from govt. house,
274; stationed at Fernandina, 46.
McCoskry, William, signer, 367, 372,
450.
McCoy, Samuel, signer, 322.
McCormick, James, signer, 477.
McCrea, Colin, grand juror, 613 n.
McCurdy, Elijah, grand juror, 614 n.,
790, 888–889.
McCurdy, William H., grand juror,
614 n., 790, 888; signer, 893.
McDavid, J. A., signer, 322.
McDonald, Alexander, signer, 321.
McDonald, Angus, signer, 321.
McDonald, Peter (Petter), signer, 322.
McDonell (McDonald; MDonell), Fer-
dinand D., grand juror, 933; petit
juror, 823; signer, 566, 813, 819.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1060 I N DE X
McLaren, Thomas, signer, 322.
McLean, Rep. Alney, of Ky., recomds.
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
McLean, Donald, signer, 322.
McLean, John, commr. GLO, 632 n.;
let. to Sec. State, 632–633; repts.
loss of nec. land records, 632–633;
requests Sec. State to investig. loc.
of lost land records, 633. See also
Land; Postmaster General.
MacLennan, John K., signer, 322.
McMahon, Dr. J. P. C., pres. bq. of
health & resdt. physician, St. Johns
Co., 359; fees of, 359; signer, 367.
McMahon, Dr. M. M., detached to
Barrancas, 538.
McNairy, John, of Tenn., recomas.:
Butler as U. S. marshal, 46 n., Hayes
as judge, 43 n.
McNeil, -, acct. as clk. to Walton
encla. to Maury, 768.
Macon, Edgar, let. ment. to Sec. State,
980; let. to Call, 821; letters to, from:
Brent, 980, Reynolds, 757; member
legis. council: appd. and comma., 422,
non-arrival of, 490; U. S. Atty. (E.
Fla. dist.): accepts appt., 680 n., 806
n., agrees with Reynolds re right of
land commrs., 759, appa. and comma.,
680, 806, comm. fund. to, 680 m.,
enters molle prosequi in Gage case, 980,
opinion ment. re transf. archs. to
land commrs., 759, repts. man held
for murder at Key West, 821, re-
quested to examine archs. re demand
of land commrs., 757, requests naval
vessel to bring witnesses from Key
West, 821, state. of, re relevance of
request of land commrs. for all papers
in archs., 757–758, tenure, 680, 806.
Macon, Sen. Nathaniel, of N. C.,
recomds. Branch as govr., 416 n.,
469 n.
McQuagge, Duncan, signer, 321.
McQuagge, Norman, signer, 321.
McQueen, Peter, chief of Creeks in Fla.,
29; followers on Coosa r., 463; fol-
lowers at Low-Walla village, 463; note
re, 226; resid. of Ga. prior to Creek
war, 58; village e. of Tampa Bay, 463.
McRae, A., signer, 289, 310, 315, 321.
McRae, John N., signer, 350.
McRea, William H., recomd. as U. S.
atty., 956 n.
McSween, Malcolm, signer, 321.
McVoy, Guillermo, grand juror, 614
n., 790, 889, 896; petit juror, 613 n.,
614 n.; signer, 289, 893.
Madison, James, rel. of Hackley, 56.
Madrid (Spain), inquiry at, re missing
land docs. requested, 400.
Maestre, Bartolo, signer, facing 702.
See also Maistre; Mestre.
Maestre, Bartolome, signer, facing 702.
Maestre (Maestri), Luis, signer, 290,
309, 314.
Magazine (St. Augustine), assigned to
milit. auth., 286.
Mahy, Capt. Genl. Nicholas, 137; Alva
seeks means to convey orders re
transfer of St. Augustine, 83–84;
auths. Coppinger to deliver E. Fla.,
to U. S., 64, 111; corresp. with Forbes
ment., 344; dilatory tactics censured,
99–100; Forbes to consult re removal
of Span. troops, 11–12; has not recd.
dispatches, 64; instrs. re archives
awaited, 86; Jackson's opinion re, 152;
letters ment. to: Callava, 337, Cop-
pinger, 89, 97, Forbes, 95, 337, 343;
letter to Forbes, 96–97; order to de-
liver E. Fla. to U. S. sent by, 97;
orders: re removal of ordinance dis-
cussed, 72, 75–76, to evacuate Fla.
sent to, 15, transf. E. Fla. archs. to
U. S., 336; receives Forbes' cre-
dentials, 96; sends dupl. orders for
transfer of St. Augustine, 84; to be
informed re classes of archives pro-
posed to be left in St. Augustine, 105.
Mail, at Blakeley, Ala., 12; to Fernan-
dina, 46, 47.
Mail contractors, to convey mail by
land on Jefferson, Ga.-St. Augustine
route, 833.
Mail contracts, awarded on St. Marys-
St. Augustine route, 767 n., difficult
to procure, on St. Augustine-Pensa-
cola route, 786; offer of, to Floyd on
Jefferson, Ga.-St. Augustine route,
900.
Maina, Jose, signer, 309, 314.
Maine (State), Alden native of, 358;
govr. of, recomd. for appt., 3 m.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1061
Maister, Bartolome, signer, facing 702.
See also Maestre; Mestre.
Malagosa, Juan, signer, 290, 310, 315.
Maldonado, Mariano, signer, 309, 314.
Mallet, James, petit juror, 611; signer,
287.
Mallett, Septemius, witness, 614 n.
Malloy, A., signer, 292.
Malloy, Daniel, signer, 292.
Manning, Benjamin, signer, 297.
Manning, Drury, signer, 297.
Manning, James, signer, 298.
Manning, Levi, signer, 297.
Manning (Maning), Robert, grand
juror, 614 n., 790, 888; signer, 298,
323, 893.
Mansfield, Lord Chief Justice, decision
cited, 7 n.
Manuels, see Camp Manuels; Gonzales,
Manuel.
Manusy, Jose, signer, 704.
Marcello, a slave, 324.
Marcostio, Jose, signer, 310, 315.
Mariel (Cuba), in rel. to Key West, 411.
Marin (Maren; Marien; Marine; Mar-
ren), Francisco (Francies; Francis),
petit juror, 800, 961, 963 n.; signer,
facing 702, 704, 761, 764, 858; signer
for estate of Ponce Joseph Sanchez,
761.
Marion, Gen. Francis,
named for, 63 n.
Market Place (St. Augustine), removal
of blags. recomd., 204.
Marsan (Massan?), Pierre,
614 n.
Marshal, see United States Marshal.
Marshall, James, signer, 477.
Marshall, John, takes naturaliz. oath,
434; signer, 350, 367.
Marshall (Marshal),
juror, 937.
Martin, George W., of Tenn., recoma.
for appt. as marshal, 46 n.; solicits
post of coll. of customs, Pensacola,
52 n.
Martin, Knight and Co., of Havana,
mail for Ayers to be sent in care of,
921.
Martin, William C., petit juror, 937.
Ft. Marion
witness,
Mathew, petit
Martinelly (Martinely), James (Jayme),
signer, facing 702; takes naturaliz.
oath, 434.
Martinez, Manuel, signer, 310, 314.
Martyn v. Fabrigas, ment., 268.
Mary, a brig, chartered of Selby and
Co., 916; feared lost enroute to
Tampa Bay, 927; ships blog. mate-
rials Pensacola to Tampa Bay, 927.
Maryland (State), 241; appts. from:
Scott as collector, 56, Worthington
as terr. sec., 51, 55; birthplace of:
Gaither, 356, 357, Gibson, 358,
Worthington, 45, 355; Cong. deleg.
from, recomds. Allen as land commr.,
917; Worthington leaves for, 486.
Mason, Littlebury, petit juror, 611.
Mason, —, awaits trial as horse thief,
179–180.
Masot, Gov. José, of W. Fla., 94.
Massachusetts (State), birthplace of:
Andrews, 357, 358, Eustis, 358, Fitch,
272, 357, Stone, 359.
Massey, Elias, signer, 321.
Mastre (Mestre), John, grand juror,
963 n.
Matanzas (Cuba),
West, 411.
Matanzas (Matanza; Matanzes) River,
char. of soil near, 941; distance to:
St. Augustine, 941, Tomoca, 633;
petit jurors from, 963; rd. to Tomoca
opened, 633; Tomoca at head of, 634.
Matanzas Tower (St. Augustine), no
recoma. re, 204.
Mathers (Matthews), William H., grand
juror, 822.
Mathews, John, signer, 893.
Mathews, William, signer, 288.
Mathis, Jonas, signer, 298.
Matre (Masters; Mestre),
ment., 961; petit juror, 961.
Mattair, James T., grand juror, 797;
petit juror, 961.
Mattair, Lewis, grand juror, 797.
Matthews (Mathews), John, grand
juror, 614 n., 790, 888; witness, 614 n.
Matthews, Jonas, signer, 292.
Maura, Jose, petit juror, 611, 613 n.,
614 n.; signer, 289.
Maura, Ygnacio, signer, 289, 310, 315.
distance to Key
Antonio,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1062
I N DE X
Mauri, Evaristo, justice of peace, St.
Johns Co., 359; leaves E. Fla., 359;
nativity, 359.
Maury (Mauray), Fontaine, acct. of
Alba (Alva) sent to, 475; agt. for payt.
of claims in State Dept., 642; adjust.
of accts. of, with U. S., 629–632; bal.
due to, from U. S., 632; bills for serv-
ice at elections sent to, 714; cannot
pay St. Augustine corpor. without
vouchers, 744; death of, 979; draws
draft to pay Gould's print. bills, 728;
explains to W. Smith mode of expedit.
settle. St. Augustine claims, 782;
fixes pay for commrs. who seized
Span. archs., 674; in charge of Fla.
funds, 107; informs: Jackson of settle.
of accts., 364, that Fla. claims, with
exception, pd. by War or Treas.
depts., 805; instrs. Garnier to file
detailed acct. of services, 619; letters
ment. to: DuVal, 837, Garnier, 642,
661, Jackson, 368, Nisbet, 517,
Reynolds and Alvarez, 903, Sec.
State, 513, Shannon, 574, W. Smith,
769, 792, 818, Walton, 844, White,
737, 781, Worthington, 513, 520,
592, 646; letters to: Alvarez, 820,
Bell, 674, Cook, 805, DuVal, 615, 774,
837, Forbes, 333, 484, Garnier, 618–
619, 642, Gould, 728, 786–787,
Reynolds, 785–786, W. Smith, 743–
744, 782, 804, Walton, 437, 514, 792;
letters to, from: Anderson, 604-605,
Barkley, 574, Bell,667–668, Bronaugh,
475, Forbes, 511, 541, 595, Garnier,
618, 661, Gibbs, 714, Hamilton, 724,
Nisbet, 517–518, Reynolds, 767–768,
Sebree, 770–771, W. Smith, 769–770,
792, 818, Walton, 481–482, 768–769,
844, White, 737-738, Worthington,
513–514, 520, 646–647; orders Forbes
to fund. acct. for compens. as agt.
to receive E. Fla. archives, 333; pays
Hynes and Gaither for services, 615;
query by, re date of completion of
work of archs. commrs., 820; requests
vouchers: for DuVal on disbursement
of certain funds, 774, re claims against
St. Augustine, 769; sends: funds to
Bell in compens., 674, Treas. draft
to pay St. Augustine claims, 804;
settle. of acct. with Treas. re execu.
of treaty of 1819, 604—605; settles
claims of Reynolds and Alvarez, 785;
Treas. draft sent by, in payt. of St.
Augustine claims recd., 818; urges
W. Smith to fund. vouchers re St.
Augustine claims, 744; Walton re-
quests full settle. of accts., 844.
May, John, petit juror, 610, 613 n.;
testimony in Gerrish assault case, 885;
witness, 614 n.
Maynard, Fleming, signer, 322.
Mayor, Pensacola; appt. of, 131, 226–
227, pay same as in St. Augustine, 227
n.; St. Augustine: appt. of, 120, comm.
signed by Jackson, 266, let. ment. to
Worthington, 265, popul. elec. pro-
vided for, 331 m. See also Forbes,
James G.; Miller, John. -
Medicis, Francisco de, petit juror, 800;
signer, 367, facing 702, 764.
Medicis, Francisco J. de, signer, 450,
704, 761.
Meigs, Return Jonathan, Jr., see Post-
master General.
Meir, John H., signer, 322.
Meistry, Pawl (Paul), signer, 858.
Menard, C., signer, 350.
Menard, Peter (Pierre), auctioneer, 361;
nativity, 361; petit juror, 962; signer,
761, 858.
Mendoza (Mendosa), Pedro, signer, 288,
309, 314. .
Mercer, John, recomds. Brown for appt.
as Indian agt., 430 n.
Merlet, E., signer, 310, 315.
Merrill, Dr. Ayres P., illness of, 538.
Mestre, Bartolo, signer, 704, 762. See
also Maestre; Maister.
Mestre, Bartolome, signer, 762. See
also Maestre; Maister.
Mestre, Juan (John), petit juror, 798;
signer, 761. -
Metcalfe, Rep. Thomas, of Ky., let. to
Sec. State, 582; memo. to, re Indian
settle. in Fla., 463-465; recomds.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n., Sebree as U. S. marshal,
591 n.; requests inform. re Indian
affairs in Fla., 582.
Meteor, a transport, brings troops from
Boston to Fernandina, 46; demurrage
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X 1063
after four days, 47; to move Span.
troops to Havana, 46; to transport
Span. officers' families to Havana, 86,
87.
Meynardie de Nadalie, Bernard, agt.
for lot holders, 762; petit juror, 799;
signer, 986.
Meynardie de Nadalie, Fougera, heirs
of, lot holders, 762.
Micanope (Meconope; Miconope), Sem-
inole chief, Indian commrs. desire
conf. with, 681 n.; reptă. prepared to
fight in defense of home, 549; settle.
of, 841; unfriendly, 841; visits Worth-
ington, 329. See also Pond Chief.
Miccasukey (?) River, Indian settle. e.
of, 463.
Miccosukee (Mickasukee; Mickasuckey;
Mikasuki; Mikasuky; Mikesooke), a
Seminole town, Creeks settle at, 29;
loc. of, 505; Richards explains Wal-
ton's talk at, 505; Richards visits,
505; proposed Pensacola-St. Augus-
tine rq. to intersect Span. rd. near,
606; proposed Pensacola-St. Augustine
rd. to pass thru, 609.
Miccosukee (Miccasuky; Mickasukey;
Micksuky) Lake (Pond), 206; fertile
land near, 234; Indian settle. on, 464.
Michael (Micheal), Peter, petit juror,
613 n.; witness, 614 n.
Michelet, Henry, appa. alderman, Pen-
sacola, 131; evid. in Myers case, 892;
grand juror, 613 n., 896; on comm. to
wait on Fromentin, 311; secy. of meet.
of Span. citizens, 311; signer, 289, 309,
311, 314, 625; witness, 614 n.
Mickel (Mickle), Peter, petit juror, 610.
Mickisaukee (Mikasuky) Country, sug-
gested by legis. council as site of terr.
capital, 522.
Mickler, Robert, petit juror, 963 n.;
signer, 858.
Middle Florida District, estab. of, 954
n.; loc. of, 954; mark. Seminole reserv.
in, delayed, 970; seat of, 954 n.
Middleton, Benjamin, signer, 289, 321.
Middleton, John, signer, 814, 816.
Middleton, J., signer, 819.
Middleton, J., Jr., signer, 814, 817.
Mier (Miers), Antonio (Anthony), appd.
police officer, St. Augustine, 120;
signer, facing 702, 704, 761, 762.
Miers, Hezkieh. See Myers, Hezekiah.
Mileage, rate, 630, 631.
Military establishment, at: Fernandina,
Amelia Island, 362, St. Augustine, 362.
Military power, conflict with civil
power (E. Fla.), 181–182, 190–191,
195–196, 197, 215–218, 222, 223, 224,
227–228, 229, 241, 245–246, 247–249,
303, 585–589,645, 731–732, (W. Fla.),
600–601; dispute with civil power re
use pub. blags., 604; end of dispute,
272-274; pub. blags. assigned to, 286,
493; rel. to civil power, under temp.
govt. Fla., 402–403. See also Civil
power.
Militia, act legis. council for organ. of,
529 n.; acts ment. re organiz. of, 721;
adjt. genl., duties of, 665; appts. in,
661; available in adjac. states, 527;
company officers to be nominated,
658; distrib. of brigades, 659 n.; gen.
officers appd. by Pres., 394; gen.
orders: first brigade, 658–659, 661,
665, second brigade, 721–722; govr.
commander in chief of, 390; insp.
genl., duties of, 665; not subj. to call
of govr. without consent of Pres., 744;
officers to take oath of office, 658, 665,
721; persons liable to duty in, 659 n.;
recomas. for appt. brigs. genl. of, 529;
reguls. re, 665; use in taking fug.
slaves recoma., 744.
Milledgeville (Millageville), Ga., ex-
press mail from Washington to, for
Pensacola, recoma., 491; mail distrib.
point for Fla. (1821), 54, 70.
Miller, D. S. H., signer, 477.
Miller, Gov. James, of Ark. Terr., ment.,
732; salary as Indian supt., 689.
Miller, James, signer, 321.
Miller, John, appd.: clk. city court, Pen-
sacola, 132, Escambia Co. clk., 662–
663; clk. sup. ct., certifies: correct. of
ct. records, 897, court records re Cou-
lons indicts., 890, 891-892, docs. re
Reilly case, 884, extracts from ct.
records, 739, 894, Garnier's term of
services as justice, 662, grand jury
presentment, 790, 812, indict. order
quashed, 897, jury abstract, 938, testi-
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1064
I N DE X
mony in Gerrish assault case, 886,
887; grand juror, 936; in alleged
combin. against Steele, 977; mayor,
Pensacola: comma. as, 226–227, pay
as, 227 n., takes oath as, 227, tenure,
227 n., member legis. council: appd.
and comma., 423, sal. pd. to assignee
for services, 631, tenure, 423; recoma.
as land commr. (W. Fla. Dist.), 846;
recomas. White as U. S. marshal, 957
n.; signer, 288, 318, 529; witness,
614 n.
Miller, John M. G., signer, 288, 322.
Miller, William, grand juror, 936; signer,
901.
Mills, B., of Ky., recomds. Blair as:
judge, 43 n., terr. secy., 44 n.
Mills, John, signer, 367.
Mims, William, petit juror, 613 n.,
614 n.; signer, 288, 323.
Minorcans, circular to, in St. Augustine,
194; favor Hernandez as terr. deleg.,
716; Hamilton incurs enmity of, 708,
709; Hamilton's interest in vote for
delegate, facing 702; oppose Hamilton
as terr. deleg., 716; remain in E. Fla.,
330.
Minter, John W., petit juror, 937.
Miranda, Pedro, signer, 367; 371, fac-
ing 702, 762.
Miranda's land grant, ment., 827.
Mirick, Andrew, signer, 477.
Mississippi (State), confirm. land claims
discussed, 291; milit. force at Pensa-
cola of importance to, 527, 528;
militia obtainable from, 527; settle.
land claims ment., 296; Ware returns
to, 679.
Mississippi customs district, 199.
Mississippi River, contiguity of Pensa-
cola to states along, 526–527; inability
of govt. to remove Seminoles to lands
west of, 712; pub. land w. of, taken by
Cherokee and Choctaw, 712; removal
of Indians w. of, ment., 695; road to
Pensacola desirable, 527.
Mississippi Territory, exper. ment. in
settling land claims, 236; Indian
manag. in, 690, 691.
Missouri (State), confirm. land claims
discussed, 291; settle. land claims
ment., 296.
Missouri Territory, Indian manag. in,
689, 691.
Mitchel, Andrew, signer, 297.
Mitchel (Mitchal; Mitchell), Octavious
(Octaveous), appd. and comma. mem-
ber legis. council, 640–641; petit juror,
611; recomd. for appt. to legis. coun-
cil, 629; signer, 289, 309, 314, 625;
surety of Simon, 793; will not attend
legis. council in St. Augustine, 682.
Mitchel (Mitchell), Peter, appa. and
comma. member legis. council, 640–
641, 913; appa. inspect. genl. militia,
721; declines appt. as alderman, 358;
foreman grand jury, 797; grand juror,
960; interest in Arredondo grant, 213;
nativity, 358; recomd. for appt. to
legis. council, 407, 616, 859; signer,
566, 761, 985.
Mitchel (Mitchell), Robert, affid. ment.
against Steele, 863 m.; attests sig. to
memorial legis. council, 528; check
sent to, for service as clk. of elec., 980;
has right to detain mail six hrs., 942;
let. ment. to PMG, 916; letters to,
from: Browne, 980, PMG, 916–917,
929, 942; p.m., Pensacola, 916, 929;
qualifies Scott as dep. coll. customs,
892; signer, 761; witness, 614 n.
Mitchell, D. B., query re retention of
corresp. with Estrado and Kindelan,
745.
Mitchell, Dr. George E., of Md.,
recomds. Allen as land commr., 917.
Mitchell, John C., signer, 183.
Mitchell, N. (Nicola) H., grand juror,
936.
Mitchell, Robert, and Williams, testi-
mony in Gerrish assault case taken
before, as justices of peace, 886.
Mitchell, Thomas, applies for appt. as
survi. pub. lands, 943 n.; signer, 290.
Mitchell, William, signer, 288.
Mitchell,—, emplyd. to copy legis. acts,
663.
Mithel, Richard, signer, 478.
Mitthertogue, Alexander, petit juror,
611.
Moae, Thomas, signer, 813, 816.
Mobile (Ala.), connects with Blakeley
by steam ferry, 698, 765; customs dis-
trict, 199; Henry Hill engaged at,
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X 1065
836; Jackson hopes to cash drafts in, |Mooing, William S., see Mooring,
37; ment., 838; newspaper in, dis- || William S.
cusses timber depreds., 791; no direct
rd. to Pensacola, 698; post route to,
ment., 767; printers prepare estimates
for publ. laws, 663–664; ships from,
pass Fla. Keys, 388; to supply boats
to remove Span. from W. Fla., 15;
troops from, to occupy Pensacola and
the Barrancas, 20; William and Henry
chartered at, 835; Yancey sails to,
from Key West, 686.
Mobile Bay, ment., 698; Shields and
Amelia anchored in, 138.
Mobile Gazette, news item re capture
Brit. ships, 405.
Mobile Point (Ala), Burch offers to open
rd. to, 767; defense of, discussed, 839;
expense of proposed ra. to Pensacola,
765; ment., 489, 753; no rd. to Pensa-
cola, 698; trail from Pensacola toward,
765.
Mobile (Mobille) River, road to Pensa-
cola needed, 527.
Molina (Molines; Molino), Antonio,
bill for house rented to Walton, 483;
rent pa. to, by Walton for use of
house, 481; signer, 289, 309, 314.
Molpus, William, petit juror, 963 n.
Molyneux, A. L., signer, 761.
Monastery, St. Augustine, blags. near:
occupied by Hobarts’ company, 307,
to convert to milit. hospital, 307.
Monroe, Mrs. James, illness of, 779, 783;
ment., 678.
Monroe County, Gadsden resid. of, 859.
Montgomery, B. R., agt. of Geddes, ar-
rives at Key West, 382 n.
Montgomery, Rep. Thomas, of Ky.,
recomás.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
DuVal as judge, 3 n.
Montoro, Joseph, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Montpelier (Ala.), Brooke commands
at, 39; Call returns to, 139; few U. S.
troops remain at, 92; Jackson: enroute
to, via New Orleans, 36, first hdqrs.,
1821, 33, proceeds to, from Blakeley,
137, to wait for Forbes at, 28; ment.,
140; non-arrival of Forbes at, 38;
U. S. troops from, move to Camp
Manuels, 92.
Mooney, Edward, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Moorhead (Morehead), Midship. Joseph,
instrs. to, by Perry 389; let. to, from
Perry, 388-389; remains on Thomp-
son's Island (Key West) as caretaker,
385; to act as pilot to cruisers visit.
harbor, 389.
Moore, Allen, signer, 292, 323.
Moore, Rep. Gabriel, of Ala., recomds.
Roberts as survn., 943 n.
Moore, Guthrey, witness, 937 n.
Moore, John, signer, 323, 478.
Moore, John S., grand juror, 61.4 n.,
790, 888; signer, 893.
Moore, Minor, signer, 478.
Moore, Thomas, signer, 292, 323.
Moore, Thomas P., of Ky., solicits
appt. as terr. secy., 44 n.
Mooring (Mooing), William S., petit
juror, 937; witness, 937 n.
Moregon, Francis, a slave, 324.
Moreno (Mareno; Morieo; Morino),
Francisco, claim for timber cut by
U. S. troops, 931; grand juror, 614
n., 790, 889, 896; petit juror, 611,
613 n.; signer, 289, 310, 315, 625,
893; witness, 61.4 n.
Moreno, Juan, signer, 625.
Moresoeoca, Antoi’o, signer, 761.
Morgan, Nicholas, petit juror, 799.
Moril, Domenick, signer, 322.
Morison, John, petit juror, 614 n.
Morison, Malcom, petit juror, 61.4 n.;
signer, 322.
Morris, Capt. George N., able to supply
inform. of St. Marks area, 597 n.,
brings Doyle under arrest, to Pensa-
cola, 597; commands at St. Marks,
578, 597 n., commended by DuVal,
597 n., entitled to compens. for con-
cil. Indians, 597 n., let. of instrs. to,
ment. re Indian rations, 488; let. to,
from PMG, 579; liquid. of accts.,
598; related alleged intrigue of
Richards, 579; summons Indians
chiefs to negot., 578.
Moseley, Rep. Jonathan, of Conn.,
recomas. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Mosquito (Musquito; Ponce de Leon
For identical names, see index: note, p. 988



1066 I N DE X
River), contractors for U. S. navy
cut timber on, 376; Indian settle.
near, 463; lighthouse provided for,
571 n.; lighthouse urged, 571; ment.,
633; schooners in, loaded with live
oak for naval use, 430–431.
Mouchons, Pierre, witness, 614 n.
Moultrie, grand jurors from, 797.
Mount, Richard, signer, 287.
Mountain, John, owns quarter interest
in Thompson's Island (Key West),
386 n.
Moussin, Pierre, signer, 310, 314.
Mulatto Girls Town, Indian settle., 464.
Mulatto King, Seminole chief, 464; let.
ment. to Walton, 305; reserv. for, in
Middle Dist., 970; talk ment. with
Jackson, 464; with Neamathla at
conf. with Jackson, 210.
Mulberry Grove, grand jurors from,
822, 934.
Mullen, Peter, signer, 287.
Munrow, William, signer, 477.
Murder Creek (Ala.), bridge needed,
856.
Murley, Amil, petit juror, 613 m.
Murley, William, petit juror, 613 n.
Murphy, James S., grand juror, 936.
Murphy, John, of Ala., recoma. as land
commr., 850 n.
Murphy, Thomas, clk. to DuVal, 733,
962; petit juror, 962.
Murray (Murry), George, acks. receipt
of comm., 958 n.; alleged: interest in
purch. of Key West, 461–463, solicit.
of appt. as coll. Key West, 460, 461,
trip to Washington, 461; applies for
payt. of salary by U. S. Govt., 725;
appointment: act. clk. St. Johns Co.
ct., 195, act. U. S. atty., 682, 806 n.,
judge St. Johns Co. ct., 460, 461, j.
p., E. Fla., 133 n., land commr. (E.
Fla. Dist.), 805 n., 958, member legis.
council, 423 n., 449 n., 493 n., 640–
641, prosec. atty., E. Fla., 133 n.,
646, solicitor St. Johns and DuVal
Cos., 725; arrives in Pensacola from
Washington, 493; clerk, St. Augustine,
358; comm. sent to, 958 n.; criticism
of, anon., 460–463; ill of yellow fever,
646; judge, St. Johns Co. ct.: pay as,
357 n., 493, 618, resig. as, 441, 445,
succeeds Gaither, 357; let. to Sec.
State, 725; member legis. council:
arrives in St. Augustine from Pensa-
cola, 529, comm. recd., 489, sal. and
mileage pd., 630, signs resol. as pres.,
715, tenure, 449 n.; nativity, 357, 358;
prosec. atty., St. Johns Co.: amt. fees
as, 357, recomd. as U. S. Atty. (E.
Fla. dist.), 414 n.; recd. compens. as
municipal officer, 484; recoma. as:
member legis. council, 423 n., 449–
450, 461, 616, U. S. Atty. (E. Fla.
dist.), 50 n., 682; recoma. for office,
195, 460; recomás.: Hanham as U. S.
marshal, 639 n., Shomo as U. S.
marshal, 591 n.; resigns as: clk. St.
Augustine council, 358, prosec. atty.,
357; retires to Sullivans' Island for
recuper., 646; sails from St. Augustine
to Pensacola, 489; signer, 529; visits
Washington, 493.
Murray, James, witness, 614 n.
Murray, Dr. Richard, appd. member
bd. health, St. Augustine, 121; fees
of, 359; health officer, St. Johns Co.,
359; nativity, 359; signer, 367, 450,
530, facing 702, 762, 764, 858, 986;
takes naturaliz. oath, 434.
Musculini, Francisco, signer, 760.
Myers and Parmentier, grand jury bills
against, invalidated, 871.
Myers (Miers; Mires; Myres), Hezekiah
(Hezkieh), petit juror, 610, 613 n.,
614 n., signer, 323.
Myers, Samuel, dep. coll. customs, Pen-
sacola, 551; letters to: QMG, 551–552,
Sec. State, 583–584; reports: small
receipts at customs house, 830, timber
depreds., 583–584; signer, 310, 315;
solicits appt. as coll. customs, Pensa-
cola, 551–552; urges remedy for tim-
ber depreds., 584.
Myers, –, brief in case of, 892–893.
Myres, Alexander, petit juror, 611.
Nadalie, see Meynardie de Nadalie.
Nashville (Tenn.), bill of p.m. for post-
age on lets. to Jackson, 631; Call sent
overland to Montpelier, 39; comm. to
Butler issued at, 35; Jackson: enroute
to, 265, prepares to return to, 220,
231; Jackson's lets. sent from, 57;
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X 1067
ment., 259; reception for Jackson in,
304; rd. to St. Stephens, Ala., 765–
766.
Nashville (Tenn.) Whig, date of Jack-
son's arrival in Nashville publd. in,
298.
Nassau (Nassaw), New Providence, port
of entry for wrecked goods, 813; ships
from: captured, 405, carry salt, 701,
on Apalachicola r., 701; wreckers pay
duties at, 684. See also New Prov-
idence.
Nassau Neck, grand jurors from, 934;
petit jurors from, 935.
Nassau River, grand jurors from, 822,
933.
National Intelligencer, art. ment. re un-
favor. conditions in W. Fla., 505;
Jackson reads acct. in, of Cong. de-
bate on his Fla. policy, 351; notice in,
re appts., 623.
National School (St. Augustine), as-
signed to milit. auth., 286; civilian
possess. allowed temp., 245; council
room assigned to act. govr., 306;
occupied by troops, 246; recomd. for
use of city council and terr. ct., 203.
Nations of Florida, ment., 463.
Naturalization, query re rel. of oath of
alleg. to, 496; rept. re, in E. Fla.,
431–435; Span. inhabs. may be citi-
zens U. S. without, 512; to whom
ordin. applies, 432.
Naval depot, Pensacola recoma. as site
of, 525–526, 527.
Naval officer, appt. of, 56.
Navigation, difficult from Pensacola to
St. Augustine, 522.
Navy Department, query re author. for
preserv. ship timber, 809–810.
Neale, Rep. Raphael, of Md., recomds.
DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Neamathla (Emathla; Eneamathla; Ne-
amathala; Neamothla; Neatheomotla;
Nehemathla), Seminole chief, 464;
arrives at Pensacola, 922; desires
Richards as interpreter, 211; heads
unruly band of Indians, 695, 832;
Indians under, kill cattle of white
settlers, 832; let. ment. to Walton,
305; meets Wright at St. Marks, 578;
no reply to Walton's talk, 347;
reserv. for, in Middle Dist., 970;
talk ment. with Jackson, 464; talk to
Humphreys sent to Walton, 670,
672; to rec. respect in Washington,
939; to talk with other tribes, 211;
visits Jackson, 210; Walton's talk
delivered to, 577, 578.
Negroes, runaways in Fla., 29; taken
from Tampa by Cowetas, 119. See
also Slaves.
Nelson, William, signer, 477.
Nettles, Benjamin, petit juror, 61.4 n.;
signer, 289, 292.
New, Rep. Anthony, of Ky., recomas.
DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Newcomer, John, petit juror, 963 m.
New Haven (Conn.), Smith acks. recpt.
of lets. at, 592.
New Jersey (State), Cong. deleg. sup-
ports Steele's appt. as dist. atty.,
590 n., 867.
Newman, Daniel, recomas. Long as
survn. pub. lands, 943 n.
New Orleans (La.), Alba (Alva) prefers
draft on, 475; bank paper not current
in, 923; br. U. S. bank at, 769; Burch
must cash draft in, 698; Call visits,
306; DuVal: requests funds for terr.
be deposited in, 923, sails from, for
Fla., 649; to advert. in, for Indian
rations, 939; Florida sent to, for
coppering, 927; Fromentin: appd.
judge from, 161, appa. pres. of college
of, 317–318, meets Jackson in, 36,
moves to, 347 n., Gadsden to try to
sell northern bank bills in, 41–42;
hears complaints re hostility of Span.
resids. of Pensacola, 38; import. of
protect. water routes to, 839; Jack-
son's bal. to be deposited in U. S.
bank at, 368; ment., 94, 137, 150,
175, 539, 707, 792, 852, 944; on Jack-
son's route to Montpelier, 28, 36;
Pensacola: connect. with, 526, cost
of living compared, 481, milit. force
important to, 527, 528, sub. stores
shipped to, 915, 916; presents for
Indians purchd. in, 502; printing of
laws in: considered, 561, printers
prepare estimates for, 663–664; provis.
for Indians might be secured at, 923;
rd. authd. to Pensacola, 487 n.,
For identical names, see index mote, p. 988



1068
I N DE X
schooner Thomas Shields lands slaves
in Pensacola from, 740, 741, 742;
sea biscuit for Span. troops to issue
from, 40; ships from: delayed by
storms, 98, pass Fla. Keys, 388, to
remove Span. from W. Fla., 15;
sickly state of, 534; slaves from,
landed at Pensacola, 876, 877, 911;
tents procured from, 845; Yancey
sails to, from Mobile, 686; yellow
fever in, 561.
New Providence, English from, take
turtles on s. coast Fla., 382; nearness
to Taverniere, 685; smugglers and
wreckers from: along the Fla. Keys,
387, carry property to, 352, 685, 707,
discussed, 412, no. ships and persons
employd. as, 352. See also Bahama
Islands; Nassau.
New Smyrna, Kings Road to St.
Augustine run by Brit., 366 n.; ment.,
940; rd. from St. Augustine needed,
634; rd. to be opened to St. Marys
r., 634. See also Old Smyrna.
Newspapers, corresp. re archs. (E. Fla.)
publd. in, by Coppinger, 302.
Newton, Giles, signer, 322.
Newton, Rep. Thomas, Jr., of Va.,
letters to, from: Scott, 830–831, Sec.
Treas., 411.
New York (City), brig, from in St.
Johns r. to ship timber illegally cut,
375; Forbes to embark at, for Havana,
11, 14; Gadsden to try to cash bills
payable in, 41; Hamilton enroute to,
945; ment., 17, 135, 242, 473; Perry
to proceed from, to Key West, 362;
rations for Span. troops sent from,
63; A. Smith said to be from, 384; W.
Smith from, 500; steam frigate at,
awaits timber by the Gipsy, 408;
schooner from, reptd. loading illegally
cut timber, 363.
New York (State), appts. from: Forbes,
45, 51, Hamilton, 413, Humphreys,
429, Rodman, 52, 56, S. Smith, 56;
native state of: Darling, 357, Rodman,
357, 358, 360.
Nichelet, Henry, grand juror, 613 n.
Nicholas (Nickolas; Nicolas), Cary,
appd. justice Escambia Co. ct., 480;
censure of Fromentin ment., 299;
recomas. Shomo as U. S. marshal, 591
n.; signer, 288, 318; suit against, by
U. S., 66 n.; witness, 614 n.
Nicholas, Cary, and Tunstall, publish
the Floridian, 157 n., 267 n., print
Jackson's ordins., 664.
Nickolls, John, signer, 287.
Nine Mile Point, near Cedar Creek,
cedar trees taken aboard brig at, 384.
Nisbet, Furguson (Furgeson) H., appd.
q. m. first brigade militia, 661; encls.
to Maury power atty. from Walton,
517; foreman grand jury, 888; grand
juror, 613 n., 896; let. to Maury,
517-518; petit juror, 614 n.; requests
settle. Walton's accts. now adjusted,
517; settles Walton's accts., 482 n.,
514; ships stores from Pensacola to
Tampa Bay,916; signer, 288,309, 314,
318; with Stone and Todd, of Phil.,
Pa., 518.
Nisbet (Nesbit), F. H., and Co., Walton
draws draft in favor of, 598; Walton
negots. payt. of bill on State Dept.,
562.
Nixon, Quilly, witness, 614 n.
Noble, Sen. James, of Ind., recomds.
DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Nollner, Bernard, signer, 322.
Nonsuch, U. S. Schooner, arrives at
St. Augustine with Span. agt., 61, 81:
arrives in Havana, 95; brings letters
from Cuba, 64; carries Arredondo
with instrs. re transfer of E. Fla., 89,
90; cruises on west coast, 39 n.; sails
from Havana to St. Augustine, 97.
Norfolk (Va.), Dawley's papers sent to,
723; list of persons sent to, encli. to
Sec. Navy, 781; ment., 514, 830, 921;
troops transfö. to, from Pensacola,
836.
Noriega (Noriago; Noriego; Noriga;
Norriega), Joseph (José; Josef), appd.
justice of peace and quorum, Pensa-
cola, 132; grand juror, 613 n., 896;
member legis. council: appd. and
comma., 490 n., 640–641,913, declines
appt., 640 n., recomd. as, 490, 537,
616, 803, 859, resigns, 682; on comm.
to wait on Fromentin, 311; recomas.
Davison as U. S. marshal, 591 n.;
signer, 290, 310, 314, 625.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1069
Norris, Simeon, signer, 289, 322.
North Carolina (State), Gibbs native of,
360; govr. recomd. for appt., 3 n.;
Hardin appd. from, 52, 56; Robinson
from, 505; use of bank paper, 923.
North Hillsborough River, loc. of milit.
post at mouth of, 842.
North River, grand jurors from, 797;
petit jurors from, 798, 961.
Northrop, Samuel, petit juror, 962;
signer, 858.
Norton, Elisha, signer, 322.
Notaries public, St. Augustine, appt. of,
121.
Nourse, Charles J., let. to Eustis, 378–
379. See also Adjutant General.
Nourse, Joseph, register of Treas., 632.
Oak Hill (Va.), Pres. Monroe's summer
home, 69.
Oath of allegiance, rel. to naturaliz.
queried, 496.
Oath of office, officials obliged to take,
394.
O-chee-fro-crassa, Indian settle., 464.
Ochessee, on Apalachicola r., 736.
Ochessee Bluffs, 720.
O-chuse-ulga, Indian settle., 464.
Ocholockonee (Oclockney; Okelockony)
River, land betw., and Suwannee r.
to be explored for site of terr. capi-
tal, 853 n.; e. bound. of Jackson's
proposed Indian reserv., 720; of seat
govt. estabd. s. of, 854.
Ocilla, Indian town, loc. of, 578 n.
Ock-la-wa-haw River, empties into St.
Johns r., 464; Indian settle. on, 464.
O-clock-ney River, Indians settle betw.,
and St. Marks r., 464; Indians settle
on e. side of, 464.
Oc-lock-o-na-Yahe, Indian settle., 463.
O-con-cha-ta (Red Ground), warriors
from, move to Tock-ta-eth-la, 464.
Ogden, Lt. Cornelius A., of Mobile
Point, recomd. as survi. of Indian
bounds., 753.
O-ke-fe-no-ke swamp,
464.
Okihamky (Okahumky; Okehumke),
Indian village, conf. betw. Gadsden
and Humphreys at, 970; hummock
present at, 969; in rel. to Seminole
Indian settle.,
reserv. bound., 905; misplaced on
Vignoles' map, 754.
Oklawaha (Ocklewaha) River, in rel. to
Seminole reserv. bound., 905.
Old Church lot (St. Augustine), recomd.
for sale, 204.
Old Convent (St. Augustine), descrip.
of, 202, 204; recomd. for use as
college, 202.
Old Government House (St. Augustine),
assigned to civil author., 285.
Old Mattacombe Island (Matecombe
Key), descrip. of, 685; recoma. as
post for inspect. of revenue, 685; store
house recomd. for, 684.
Old Powder House (St. Augustine),
recomd. for sale, 203–204.
Old Smyrna, rd. from Tomoca to be
opened, 633. See also New Smyrna.
Old Suwannee (Suwany) Town, de-
stroyed by fire, 463.
Old Towns, see Miccosukee Lake.
Oleander, English schooner, seized for
viol. navig. laws, 179.
Olivero, Pedro, signer, 290.
Oliveros (Oliverez), Bartolome (Bar-
tolo), petit juror, 962; signer, facing
702.
Olkman, James, signer, 818, 816.
Olochtamica, Indian chief, meets Wright
at St. Marks, 578.
O'Neal, Henry, signer, 297.
Onis, Luis de, Span. minister to U. S.,
supplied with copy of Indian treaty
of 1784, 270.
Only Daughter, small craft, live oak
timber shipped on, to Savannah, 794.
Oponey, Seminole chief, visits Worth-
ington, 329 n.
O-po-neys Town, Indian settle. near
Tampa Bay, 463.
Oranges, future growth in Fla. pre-
dicted, 581.
Ordinance of 1787, fixes status of terr.
secy. in absence of govr., 456-457 n.
Ordinances (by Jackson), affecting E.
Fla. delivered to Worthington, 178;
clause re co. cts., 437 n., contain an
interp. of Span. law, 167; cost of
print., 664; estab. cos. and co. cts.,
178, 494 n.; list of, issued at Pensa-
cola, 156 n.; printed copies sent to
For identical names, see indea: mote, p. 988



1070
I N DE X.
Sec. State, 192, 331; provide for elec.
of mayor and aldermen (St. Augustine),
331 n.; prov. re civil cases discussed,
421-422; prov. re meet. St. Johns Co.
ct., rescinded, 420; publ. of, 134 n.;
relating to quarantine and naturaliz.,
178; sent to St. Augustine, 157;
sources re, 156 n.
Ordnance, argument for Span. posses-
sion of, 75–77; discussed re: owner-
ship under treaty, 87, 142, retention
by U. S., 72–73, 79–80, transfer from
Pensacola, 122, transfer from St.
Augustine, 68; dispute of Jackson
and Callava re surrender of, 145-
146; dispute re ownership refd. to
U. S. govt., 116; Forbes' negots.
at Havana re disposition, 69 n.;
Jackson to instruct Butler re, 98;
ownership in E. Fla. subject to
further negot., 112, 113; part removed
to Coppinger's transports, 113; plan
of removal from St. Augustine, 103;
rept. re, 152–153; surrendered to
U. S. at St. Marks, 101; to be re-
tained by U. S. where possible, 53.
O'Reilly, Gov. Alexander, of La., intro-
duced Span. law, 151.
Orleans Territory, acts ment. re: adjust.
land claims in, 172, 173, estab. of,
172, statehood, 173.
Ormond, Emanuel W., agt. for Addison,
858; petit juror, 799, 961; signer, 858,
986; signs as agt., 858.
Ormond, James, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Ortis, J., evid. of, in Myers case, 892.
Ortiz, José, signer, 289, 310, 315.
Osage Indians, rels. with, 690.
Overton, John, of Tenn., recomas.:
Butler as U. S. marshal, 46 n., Hayes
as judge, 43 n.
Overton, Samuel R., of Tenn., absence
of, 983; advises Pres. re status of
land commrs., 679–680; appd. and
commd. land commr., 428-429; ar-
rival as land commr., 456; declares
oper. of land commrs. prolonged,
678–679; expresses concern re inability
of land bd. to proceed, 717; illness
of, 983; lets. to Pres., 678-680, 717–
718; note re, 428; recomd. for appt.
as land commr., 428 n.; recomás.:
Gaither as land commr., 679, Hunter
as land commr., 718 n., Shomo as
U. S. marshal, 591 n., White as land
commr., 679, 718; sal. pd. to Duncan,
631; signs let., 846. See also Ware,
Nathaniel A., and Overton.
Overton, Samuel R., and White, recoma.:
Hunter as land commr., 718 n., to
Cong. exten. of time to complete
work, 718 n.
Owen, Rep. George, of Ala., recomds.
Murply as land commr., 850 n.
Pablo, loc. of, 47 n., 370.
Pablo Creek, loc. of, 47 n.
Pacety (Pacetty), Andres (Andrew),
petit juror, 799; signer, 704.
Pacetty, Jose, signer, 704.
Pacheco, Mariano, signer, 310, 314.
Page, Lt. John, asst. q. m., Tampa Bay,
928.
Paine (Payne), Lt. Thomas, commands
gunboat, 48.
Palafax Street, Pensacola, 886.
Palisier, —, agt. of slave owner, 118.
Palmer and Keyser, evid. in Myers case,
893.
Palmés, Francisco, grand juror, 613 n.;
petit juror, 613 n.; signer, 289, 310,
315, 625.
Palmés, Pablo, grand juror, 613 n.;
petit juror, 612, 614 n.; signer, 311,
315.
Pancia (?), Antonio, signer, 289.
Papy, Andrew, appd. police officer, St.
Augustine, 120.
Papy (Pappy), José (Joseph), petit
juror, 798; signer, 858.
Papy, Miguel, signer, 704.
Pardons, auth. of govr. to grant, 390.
Pargas, Bernardo, signer, 309, 314.
Parker, A., signer, 292.
Parker, Benjamin, signer, 322.
Parker, Bryant, signer, 322.
Parker, Daniel, see Adjutant General.
Parker, John, signer, 323.
Parker, N., signer, 292.
Parker, William, signer, 477,819.
Parkinson, S. D., signer, 322.
Parliament (Brit.), query reacts of, for
compens. to Brit. grantees, 455-456.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1071
Peire, Henry D., appd. sheriff, Escam-
bia Co., 131 n.
Pe-lac-le-ka-ha, Indian settle., resid. of
Seminole chief, 464; Indian settle. s.
of, 464.
Pelham, Capt. Peter, appa.: subagt.
Indian affairs, 278, 279, 452, 602,
sutler at Cant. Brooke, 47.4 n.; appt.
as subagt. Indian affairs sent to, 264;
appt. in place of, discussed, 923; bal.
of Indian funds in Worthington's
hands to be pd. to, 453-454; comm.
as subagt., 264; failed to return to
duty, 474 n.; granted sick leave, 328
n., 474–475, 603; illness of, 327, 495,
497, 547, 697; inability to act as
subagt., 732–733; letters ment. to: Du-
Val, 547, Eustis, 498, 512; letter to
Eustis, 497; letters to, from: Eustis,
498, Sec. War, 264, 474–475; ordered
to plan with Bell conduct of business
in latter's absence, 497; prepares to
sail for Charleston, 497; recs. no
instrs. re Indian policy, 495; repts. to
Worthington as subagt., 327; requests
Eustis to take over Indian affairs until
arrival of Humphreys, 497, 498; sal-
ary, 453; signer, 401; to advise govr.
of intended absence, 475; to consult
physicians at Phila., 474; to rec. all
avail. inform. from Worthington re
Indian rels., 327–328; to rept. to Bell,
264; under control of Indian agt., 602.
Pellicer, Juan, signer, facing 702.
Pellisen, John, appd. dep. police officer,
St. Augustine, 120.
Pelliser, Francisco, Sr., signer, 704.
Pelot, James, signer, 566, 814, 816, 819.
Pendergast, Morris, signer, 287.
Pendleton, James, petit juror,
signer, 297, 321.
Pénières (Pennieres), Jean A., appd.
subagt. Indian affairs, 25, 26–28, 81,
165; arrival awaited, 209; arrives from
Picolata, 171; believes acts unauthd.,
126; characterized, 25; criticized by
Jackson, 213 n.; death from yellow
fever, 240, 244, 249, 263, 278, 327;
disposal of papers ment., 280; encls.
to Jackson memoirs on E. Fla., 259;
English interp. sought for, 207; expe-
610;
Parmentier, Nicholas S., in alleged
combine against Steele, 977; grand
juror, 613 n.; ment. re Myers case,
892; petit juror, 614 n.; signer, 310,
315. See also Alba, Peter, and Par-
mentier; Myers and Parmentier.
Parsons, James, witness, 61.4 n.
Paryas (?), Annunzo Bernardo, signer,
289.
Paschal, Jeremiah, signer, 287.
Pasety (Pacety?), Joseph, signer, 858.
Passports, to enter Indian country may
be issued by mil. officers, 512.
Pastor, Anthony, acct. as interp. settled,
410; char. discussed, 410.
Pate, Jerimiah, signer, 322.
Patrick, Philip, signer, 321.
Patterson, Commodore Daniel T., note
re, 39; ordered to patrol to Tampa
Bay to halt slave trade, 39.
Patterson, James B., appt. authd. as
prosec. atty., E. Fla., 135; recoma. as
prosec. atty., 135.
Patterson, J. W., of N. Y., recomd. as
dist. atty., 50 n.
Patterson, Samuel, petit juror, 613 n.;
grand juror, 614 n., 790, 888; non-
arrival of, 195; recomd. as clk. of ct.,
St. Johns Co., 195; signer, 893.
Patuzzo, Sn., signer, 287.
Paul, Pierre, signer, 309, 314.
Paul, Thomas S., petit juror, 613 n.
Payne (Paine), Capt. Matthew M.,
commands Fernandina, 362; let.
ment. to PMG, 197; let. to, from
Bradley, 197; recomds. move of
troops from Fernandina to St. Augus-
tine, 48–49; rept. ment. re the Apollo,
30 n.
Paynes field, negro settle. near, 464.
Peace Creek, hummocks near, 969.
Pear Creek, hummocks near, 969.
Pearce, Capt. , commands Omly
Daughter, 794.
Pea River (Ala.), bridge nec., 856;
provs. for troops open. rā. to be
deposited at, 609.
Pearson (Pierson), Robert, petit juror,
799.
Peggy, U. S. schooner, W. Fla. papers
taken from, by privateer, 94.
For identical mames, see index note, p. 988



1072
I N DE X
rience among Indians, 221; holds talks
with Indians, 126; illness prevents
conf. with Jackson, 219–220; instrs.
ment. to, 220; instrs. to, 26–27; Jack-
son doubtful re ability as Indian
subagt., 212; leaves papers at death,
240; lets. ment. to Jackson, 206, 259;
let. to, from Sec. War, 26-27; no
instrs. to visit Havana, 27.9; ordered
to rept. to Bell, 220; pay and allow.,
26; proposed visit to Havana, 207;
repts. Seminoles dissatisfied, 171;
sources re activities of, 240 m.; takes
naturaliz. oath, 434; to rec. instrs.
from Bell, 221.
Penn, Thomas H., of S. C., appd.:
justice of quorum, 133 n., 194 n.,
notary pub., St. Augustine, 361, p.m.,
St. Augustine, 361, 369 n.; compens.
as judge, co. ct., 133 n., 397 n., let.
to, from PMG, 655; nativity, 357,
361; presid. justice, St. Johns Co.,
357; query to, re safety of mails from
St. Augustine to St. Marys via
Cowford, 655; recoma. as: member
legis. council, 423 n., U. S. marshal,
639 n.; resided in Ga., 357; signer,
349, 367, 448, 450, 530, 762, 858,
985; solicits post of coll. of customs,
St. Augustine, 52 n.; succeeds An-
drews as presid. justice, St. Johns Co.,
357.
Pennsylvania (State), Davis native of,
359; Reynolds native of, 355, 359,
360, 415.
Pensacola (Penzacola), admiralty case
ment., 259; agt. plans to import
slaves before U. S. occup., 38; alleged:
acts by Span. subjects against non-
resident U. S. cits., 38, attempt of
Span. to carry away archs., 338–339,
interfer. of DuVal in choice of mayor,
539, violation of terr. law by Steele,
812; alter. routes to Barrancas, 653;
Amelia forced to return to, 626, 628;
Anderson to reside at, 51; anxiety of
Jackson re early transfer, 143–144;
appts. in: alcalde, 168, aldermen,
168, Baker as inspect. of customs, 56,
bd. of health, 150, 168, coll. customs,
658, dep. marshal, 271, dist. judge
under temp. govt., 242, mayor, 168,
Miller as mayor, 226–227, Scott as
coll. customs, 840; archives at, dis-
cussed, 36–37; arrest and detention
of Williers and Guillemard in, 403–404;
arrival of DuVal not reptd. in St.
Augustine, 496; arrival of Gaines, 348;
arrival of the Hornet, 141; at w.edge
of land fit for settlement, 233; block-
houses: assigned to milit. author.,
576, assigned as customs house, 551,
discussed, 984–985, in center of
streets, a menace, 984; Brackenridge
acts as alcalde, 158, 168; Brit. gran-
tees evicted, 738; Brit. plat of, be-
lieved in State Dept., 485; Bronaugh
announces as cand. for deleg., 543;
Brooke requests field artil. from, 919;
blåg. material shipped from, to
Tampa Bay, 916, 930; Butler leaves
for, after induction of Bell, 345;
Butler to go from St. Augustine to,
113, 115, 116; Call sent to, to arrange
occup. of St. Marks, 71; Call to
await arrival of the Hornet, 138;
cargo timber shipped from, to Phila.,
583; certain corresp. re E. Fla. archs.
in files of govt. in, 335; char. of harbor,
526; Clark sails from, to begin survey
of rā. route, 944; climate recomd.,
527; comm. to Worthington as act.
govr. issued from, 105; commer.
import. of, 766; condition of: block-
houses and barracks, 153, govt. house
and hospitals, 153, jail discussed by
grand jury, 447–448; conds. in, before
U. S. occup., 143; connect. with New
Orleans, 526; contiguity to states
along Miss. r., 526–527; contract for
print. terr. laws in, discussed, 561;
corp. estabd. for, 150; corresp. from
St. Augustine drops off, 354; cost of
living, 481,774; cost of mail transport
to Claiborne, Ala., 290; crew of
Carmen held for piracy, 447–448;
custom house assigned to civil author.,
576; customs office: abolished, 831 n.,
estab. at, 51; date of depart. of
Butler for, 125; defenses discussed,
526, 839; depot for Cant. Brooke,
843; detention of Span. officers in,
369; discontent subsides, 652; dis-
tance to: Ft. Mitchell by direct route
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1073
and via Claiborne and Federal rd.,
856, Road Forks, 487, St. Augustine,
487, 554, 608, 609, 643; distressed
state of, 537; Doyle tried and ac-
quitted in, 597; DuVal and Hum-
phreys detained at, 970; DuVal’s
procl. issued at, 504; exam. of harbor
completed, 839; expense of living
greater than in New Orleans, 481;
factions reptd. in, 649; Forbes: ar-
rives at, 70, leaves Havana for, 100,
sails to, 90; Fromentin to reside at,
51; govt. house at: army officers
occupy, 293, assigned to civil author.,
576, blógs. near, occupied by Span.
troops, 557, used by U. S. troops,
304; govt. moves to St. Augustine,
665, 666; govt. of, calls on army to
confine civil prisoners, 448; govt.
records and furniture at, must be sent
to St. Marks, 853–854; grand jury:
selected from inhabs. only, 866, ses-
sion, 788; Hanham travels from, to
St. Augustine, 169; harmony in,
since Span. officers left, 276; Hornet
sails from Havana for, 81; H. R.
resol. for donation of pub. property in,
644; Humphreys sails from, to St.
Marks, 607; Hynes leaves St. Augus-
tine for, 567; hdqrs. army detach., s.
frontier, 117; illegal ship. of live oak
and red cedar from, 693; import. of
slaves to, 740–743; Indian chiefs
visit, 597, 598; indicts. for riot in,
887–888, 889, 893, 896; in need of
jail, 676; Jackson: delivers talk to
Indian chiefs at, 409, hopes to cash
drafts in, 37, places confid. agt. in,
140, plans to leave, 274, prepares to
leave, 220, yields govt. house to
troops, 304; Jenkins to reside in, 52;
Kearney stops survey of defenses of,
808; land commrs.: adjud. of W. Fla.
land claims to be held at, 424, 428 n.,
cannot complete task in W. Fla. in
time set by law, 563, closing of work
deferred, 678-679, exten. of sessions
recoma., 564, operate from, 623, seat
of first meet., 484; legis. council:
first meet. at, 392, 460, 461, 486,
490 n., inhabs. recoma. for appt. to,
616, not organized, 511, recomas.
site of naval depot, 525-526, removes
on acct. of yellow fever, 535; light-
house at: approp. for, 523 n., needed,
523, to be estab., 650; list of ordi-
nances issued by Jackson at, 156 n.;
mail route to Ft. Mitchell to be survd.,
737; mayor and council request use of
block house for official quarters, 550;
mayor ordered to pay for care of sick
sailors, 507; memorial of city council
for grant of pub. blógs., 318–320;
memorial of bar against reappt. of
Fromentin, 183; ment., 11, 12, 17 n.,
28, 31, 34, 39, 77, 94, 99, 114, 177,
266, 273, 299, 443, 555, 556, 620, 679,
753, 851, 872, 899, 922; mercantile
houses buy and ship pub. timber,
701; mileage allowed from St. Augus-
tine, 630, 631; milit. and naval import.
of, 766; names of signers to petition
from, 309–311; names of signers to
recommend., 318; need for reserve of
pub. property for use of, 644–645;
no dep. marshal appd., 214; no direct
rd. to Mobile, 698; no rd: to Mobile
Point, 698; no sal. named for coll.
customs at, 840; no vessel available
to carry Alva (Alba) to St. Augustine,
84; not fit loc. for seat terr. govt.,
349; orders re exchange of flags, 108–
109; passengers to, on the Enterprise,
631; plan of occup. of, 109; popula-
tion: decrease of, 259, estim., 1821,
213 n., of terr., divided betw., and
St. Augustine, 643; port of entry, 55;
postal schedules to: Ft. Hawkins, Ga.,
487, Road Forks, 487, St. Augustine,
487; post of coll. of customs solicited,
52 m.; post ra. to: Claiborne, Ala.,
estab., 198, New Orleans, authd.,
487 n., St. Augustine, estab., 487 n.,
579, 786, St. Augustine, recomii., 410;
principal settle. in W. Fla. under
Span., 522; prison assigned to civil
author., 576; proceeds. re Reilly at
ct. house in, 884; procl. re capital
issued at, 855; proposed Jackson
camp near, pending conf. with Cal-
lava, 78; protective measures against
Indians proposed, 233; public. of
U. S. laws in, recoma., 682; pub.
blågs.: assigned to civil author., 683,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
301867—57—69



1074
IN DE X
Brit. grantees claim and occupy, 738,
descrip. and status of, 556–557, dis-
pute of civil and milit. author. re,
600–601, 604, distrib. betw. civil and
milit. ordered, 488, 489, 493, 576,
included within fort under Brit.,
556–557, no inventory of, avail., 472,
occupied by milit., 471, 472, orig.
sold by Span. govt., 319, placed at
disposal of civil author., 510, ruinous
state of, 788; query re possible mail
service to St. Augustine, 932; recoma.
re course of ferry across bay to, 736;
recomas. for appt. of: coll. customs
at, 4 n., p. m. at, 4 n.; records and
pub. docs. to be sent to new capital,
907; removal of Span.: agree. re,
122–124, Callava and Span. officers
leave, 306, officials leave, 265, plans
for, 14 n., probable date of, 92;
reports re: defenses requested, 808,
move of troops to Tampa Bay,
835–836, pub. blógs. in, 155–156;
resid. of Jackson as govr., 55; Rich-
ards visits, 501; roads to: Ala. pro-
posed, 764-766, Blakeley, Ala., de-
scribed, 698, 764–765, Cahaba, Ala.,
laid out, 766, Ft. Claiborne, direct,
698; ra. to Barrancas: completed, 851,
survey deferred, 653, to be located,
605; ra. to Ft. Mitchell: descrip. of
route, 855, oper. begins to open, 968,
to be opened, 924, two routes avail.,
856; rd. to Miss. and Mobile rivers
desirable, 527; ra. to St. Augustine:
approp. required for, 676, 902, ap-
proved in principle, 509, 519, Burch
prepares to survey, 772–774, course
of, 634, early open. urged, 492, 606–
607, 642, 643, petition for, 401, pro-
posed, 502, 522, 634, 857, proposed
route of, 608–609, survey to begin,
736, to be survd. and marked, 652,
676, 729, to cross rd. from Cape
Sable, 924 (see also St. Augustine, rd.
to Pensacola); Rua mayor of, 629;
salary of surviſ. customs, 831; sched.
of pub. property ceded by Span.
needed, 983, 984; seat of sup. ct.,
W. Fla. dist., 51, 392, 393, 884, 886,
887, 890, 891, 892, 893, 894, 895,
897, 954 n.; Seminoles can cut com-
munic. with St. Augustine, 533–534;
ships from, pass Fla. Keys, 388; sickly
state of, 534; site n. of, proposed for
school blóg., 308; slaves from New
Orleans landed at, 876, 877; Span
troops from St. Marks to be sent to,
53; state. re transp. expenses q. m.
dept., 915–916; store houses assigned
to milit. author., 576; sub. stores
shipped: from New Orleans, 915, 916,
to Tampa Bay, 916; survi. of port
authd. by law, 831; survi. and inspect.
revenue appd. for port of, 658; temp.
organiz. of, 131–132; tents shipped
from, to Tampa Bay in poor condi-
tion, 845; testimony re Gerrish as-
sault case taken in, 886, 887; trail to
Red Bluffs, Mobile Bay, 698; trans-
ports for Span. troops expected at,
142; under Spain, plan of milit. part
of, changed, 557; union with Ala.,
recomd., 540; U. S. troops: assist in
defense of s. states and cities, 527,
camp near, awaiting removal of Span.
troops, 92, 108, 143, 147,148, DuVal
desires move from center of town,
471, 472, Fenwick commands, 385,
for rd. work, 924, fourth inf., 21 m.,
720, from Mobile, 20, from St. Marks,
915, move to Norfolk, 836, move to
Tampa Bay, 794, no. to occupy, 108,
plan for move to Tampa Bay, 834,
q. m. supplies at, 846, removed, 557,
600, supplies to be deposited in, 188,
time lapse in move to Tampa Bay,
843, to be stationed at Cant. Clinch,
722; value to, of inferior courts, 524;
vessels clear, laden with live oak and
cedar, 701, 791; viewed as future
commer. center, 319, 320; wagon rd.
to: Choctawhatchee via Ft. Craw-
ford, 608, Taitsville, Ala., 765;
Walton leaves, for St. Augustine, 670,
672; Walton to return at adjourn. of
legis. council, 688; Ware desires
comm. as land commr. sent to, 455;
wellow fever: Amer. inhabs. leave
during epidemic, 560–561, most of
Amer. popul. dies, 535, 552, preva-
lance, 531, 532, 552–553, 557-558,
560–561, 562, 564, 580, 581, 619,
623,648, 664, 738.
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



IN DE X
1075
Pensacola Bay, improv. of navig. to
Apalachicola r., urged, 789; St.
Augustine-Pensacola rd. to terminate
betw., and St. Rose's channel, 634.
Pensacola Floridian, art. from, publd.
in Enquirer, 250; contains art. by
Shannon re admin. justice in Escam-
bia Co. ct-, 493 n.; Jackson's address
publd. in, 238 m.; Jackson's comm.
publd. in, 266; ordinances publd. in,
157 n., recd. in St. Augustine, 239;
State Dept. subscribes to, 267 n.
Pensacola Gazette and West Florida Ad-
vertiser, compens. for print. laws to be
pd., 920; formerly the Floridian,
establd., 920.
Pensacola path, proposed Pensacola-Ft.
Mitchell rd. follows, 856.
Pensacola treaty, Indian limits in E. Fla.
estabd. by, 270.
Pent, Temple, takes naturaliz. oath, 435.
Peorho (?), Edward, signer, 323.
Pepoon, Joseph, petit juror, 799.
Pepoon, Joseph T., signer, 762.
Perdido River, bound. revenue dist., 55;
confirm. land claims w. of, discussed,
291; crossed by ferry on route to
Blakeley, 764, 765; settle. land claims
w. of, 297; w. bound. W. Fla., 55.
Perez, Antonio, signer, 288, 314.
Perez, Augustin, signer, 289, 309, 314,
625.
Perez, Juan, signer, 311, 315.
Perez, Julius, signer, 310.
Perkins, B. H., signer, 901.
Perkins, Constantine, of Ala., recoma.
as dist. atty., 50 n.
Perpall, Gabriel William, accts. for
services as judge of elec., 714, 715;
appa.: mayor, St. Augustine, 120,
member bal. of health, St. Augustine,
121; appraises pub. lots, St. Augus-
tine, 569; atty. for lot holders, 760;
form of certif. required for payt. of
claims sent to, 953; grand juror, 797,
960; helps pay Bell's fine, 269 m.;
judge of elec. for terr. deleg., 953; let.
to, from Browne, 953; member legis.
council, 640–641; recomd. as member
legis. council, 423 n., 616; signer, 349,
367, 371, 401, 448, 530, facing 702,
704, 761, 858, 986.
Perry, Lt. Matthew C., assigns More-
head as caretaker of Thompson's
Island (Key West), 385; authd. to:
cruise around Cuba, 363, cruise in
Gulf of Mex., 363, suppress slave
trade and piracy, 363, take possess. of
Key West, 363; commands U. S.
schooner Shark, 362; improves Key
West, 386; instrs. to Morehead, 389;
instrs. to, re exam. and survey of Key
West, 362-363; letters to: Moorhead,
388–389, Sec. Navy, 385–388; let. to,
from Sec. Navy, 362-363; rept. by, re
exped. to Key West and its explor.
and condition, 385–388; Sec. Navy
orders to take possess. Key West, 388;
takes formal possess. Key West for
U. S., 385.
Perrymans, a Creek clan, moving to
Creek nation, 226.
Pescay, Jules P., signer, 289.
Pescay, Julius, signer, 287.
Petit, Jourdan, petit juror, 613 n.; wit-
ness, 614 n.
Petit jurors, abstract of, including
names of individuals, 610—612, 798–
800, 823, 934—935, 937, 961–963; pay
of, 610–612, 798–800; qualifications of,
398; trial by, discussed, 421–422.
Petitions and memorials, discussed or
ment.: annex. part of W. Fla. to Ala.,
311, appt. of add. bā. land commrs.,
619–622, compens. of justices, Es-
cambia Co. ct., 493–494, Escambia
Co. jail, 262 n., from inhabs. St.
Johns r., 476, pub. bligs., St. Augus-
tine, 604, release of Williers and
Guillemard from arrest, 369, repres.
of St. Augustine in legis. council, 461;
names of signers, 183, 292, 297–298,
309–311, 314–315, 318, 320, 321–323,
324, 333, 349—350, 353, 367, 401,
477–478,480, 481, 529, 530, 565–566,
568, 573, 625, 704, 760–762, 764,
813–814, 816–817, 819, 841, 858, 901;
texts to Cong. by: Carrera for law to
permit removal of his slaves from
Havana to Pensacola, 324, city coun-
cil (Pensacola), for grant of pub.
blågs. to city corp., 318–320, city
council (St. Augustine), for add.
revenue and donations of pub. blags.
For identical names, see indez note. 49.988



1076
I N DE X
Petty, George, grand juror, 960; petit
juror, 798.
Peynado, Jose, signer, 309, 314.
Philadelphia (Pa.), 125; cargo timber
shipped to, from Pensacola, 583;
Gadsden to try to cash bills payable
in, 41; map of Ala. sent to Burch
from, 766; Pelham to consult phy-
sicians in, 474; Span. minister writes
to Sec. State from, 418.
Philibert (Phillibert), Antonio, petit
juror, 611.
Philibert, A. P., signer, 310, 315.
Philibert, Celestin, signer, 310, 315.
Philibert, Pierre, signer, 310, 315.
Philibert, —, signer, 310, 315.
Philips (Phillips), Matthew H., ment.,
823; petit juror, 823, 934; signer, 478.
Philis, François, signer, 310, 315.
Pickett (Pieckett), Seymour, grand
juror, 822, 934; petit juror, 800.
Pickook, Edward, signer, 288.
Picolata (Picolatta; Picollata; Picoloto),
Brit. conf. with Indians at, ment.,
465; grand jurors from, 960; loc. of,
634; on Pensacola-St. Augustine post
rd., 487; petit jurors from, 799, 963;
St. Augustine-Pensacola rd. to pass
thru, 634.
Picolata treaty, Indian limits in E. Fla.
estabd. by, 270.
Pigeon, James, signer, 321.
Pinckney, William, coll. customs, Key
West, 921 n. -
Pindar, Capt. Charles, engages the ship
Henry Hill to carry troops from Pen-
sacola to Norfolk, 836; effort to col-
lect sum from Chaires, 940 n.; Gads-
den draws bill in favor of, 851; in-
dicted for riotous conduct, 893; set-
tles at St. Marks, 836 n.; solicits appt.
as sutler at Tampa Bay, 836 n.
Pine, illegal cut. of, 375–376.
Pine Island, fug. slaves on, 744, 745:
loc. of, 744.
Pinkney, Maj. Gen. Thomas, query re
retention of corresp. with Estrado and
Kindelan, 745.
Pinkney, Sen. William, of Md., recomds.
Worthington for office, 35 n.
Pintado, Vincente Sebastian, survi.
genl. W. Fla. (1805), believes survey
and pub. land, 332–333, city council
(St. Augustine), for quit claim deed
to land used as a common by Span.,
568, cits. of E. Fla. for desig. Fernan-
dina as port of deposit for wrecked
goods, 812–814, cits. E. Fla. for
estab. Fernandina as port of entry,
815–817, cits. St. Augustine and St.
Johns Co. for estab. of post routes
through Ga. via Kings rd. to St.
Augustine, 366–367, cits. W. Fla. for
confirm. of land claims acquired be-
fore Span. cession, 290–292, 296–298,
cits. W. Fla. for a site for pub. school
and land grant for its support, 308–
311, cits. W. Fla. for cessation of
taxes, 624–625, inhabs. E. Fla. for
advance to second grade of govt. and
consolid. of the provinces, 348—350,
inhabs. E. Fla. for open. rd. from St.
Augustine to Pensacola, 401, inhabs.
E. Fla. dist. for rendition of fug.
slaves among the Indians, 857–859,
inhabs. E. Fla. dist. for various
objects, 570–573, inhabs. E. Fla. dist.
for veto by Cong. of terr. laws re
taxes and organ. co. cts., 565–566,
inhabs. Fernandina for donation of
land, 819–820, inhabs. W. Fla. for
annex. to Ala., 320–323, Ky. Deaf and
Dumb Inst. for land grant in Fla., 900–
902, Scott forsal. as customs coll., Pen-
sacola, 840–841, Simonton and asso-
ciates for estab. of Key West as port
of entry, 352–353, Span. cits. W. Fla.
against annex. to Ala., 312–315; texts
to Pres. by: Escambia Co. justices for
compens. in add. to fees, 480–481,
inhabs. St. Augustine for dismissal of
Hamilton as land commr., 703–704,
inhabs. of terr. for return of fug.
slaves, 762–764, legis. council for
amends. to act organiz. terr. govt.,
estab. rds., erect. lighthouses, reform
of jud., and sundry objects, 52.1–528,
Pensacola bar, critical of appt. of
Fromentin, 183; text to Sec. State by
inhabs. St. Johns r. for select. of Jack-
sonville as port of entry, 477–478;
text to Sec. Treas. by lot holders of St.
Augustine for confirm. of titles, 759–
762.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X 1077
papers private property, 94; certifies
copies of alleged land titles, 517; ex-
tent of land records in possess. of,
152; has record of proceeds. re land
surveys, 516; offers survey papers for
sale, 94; paid for services in land
grants, 94; retains land grant papers
in Havana, 235; subjects indiv.
claimants to high costs for copies,
516.
Piper, Joseph, petit juror, 613 n.; testi-
mony in Gerrish assault case, 885;
witness, 614 n.
Pirates and piracy, extra fees to dist.
atty. in cases of, 781; case of, dis-
cussed, 594 n.; center at Fla. Keys,
295; crew of Carmen held for, 447–
448; Fla. judge cannot hear case of,
292; ment., 57, 523; off Tampa Bay,
927; plan for pursuit of, 259; rept. re
rendezvous of, 259; trial of, 738.
Pittsburgh (Pa.), 125.
Pla, Lorenzo, signer, 625.
Pleasanton, Stephen, agt. U. S. Treas.,
circular to dist. attys., 65–66; desires
advice of Scott re loc. and construc.
of lighthouse, 650; let. to Scott, 650;
let. to, from White, 594-595; ment.,
793; signs state. re accts. terr. officials,
632.
Pleasants, Sen. James, of Va., recomds.
DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Pleasants, James J., sec. state, Ala., cer-
tifies copy of resol., 308.
Plummer, James, grand juror, 960; petit
juror, 798.
Poirier (Porrier), Peter, agt. for lot
holder, 761; grand juror, 963 n.; petit
juror, 799; signer, 761; takes naturaliz.
oath, 434.
Pol, Antonio, signer, 309, 314.
Police officers and their deputies, St.
Augustine, appt. of, 120.
Pomar, Jose, signer, 371, facing 702, 704,
761.
Ponce, Bartolome, signer, facing 702,
704.
Ponce, Beneta, agt. for Murray, 762.
Ponce de Leon, see Mosquito River.
Pond Chief (Micanope; Pond Gover-
nor), to confer with Eustis re Indian
meet., 548; visits: Coppinger, 212,
Worthington, 329 n. See also
Micanope.
Pons (Ponce), Francisco, grand juror,
933; signer, 566.
Pons, Francisco L., signer, 813, 816, 819.
Poole, Joseph, witness, 614 n.
Pope, John, of Ky., recomds. Blair as:
judge, 43 n., terr. secy., 44 n.
Pope, John M., grand juror, 936;
witness, 937 n.
Pope, Joseph, signer, 321.
Pope, William S., grand juror, 936;
witness, 937 n.
Population, majority of U.S. origin, 151.
Porpoise, U. S. schooner, 14; at Key
West, 776; convoys Span. troops to
Havana, 125; ready to convey Span.
troops to Cuba, 60.
Porrier, F., signer, facing 702.
Porter, Comdr. David, allowed to re-
move cause of suspicion by Cuba,
706; allows no ships from foreign
ports to land at Key West, 707; asks
instrs., 707; authd. to suppress piracy
and protect Amer. commerce, 705 n.;
believes custom house will not sup-
press smuggling, 707; commands W.
Indian squadron, 705 n.; comments
re wreckers on Fla. Keys, 706–707;
court martial of, 706 n.; depart. from
Key West ment., 780; detains
schooner with contraband at Key
Vaca, 713; DuVal suggests, be
authd. to demand return of fug.
slaves, 745; encls. to Sec. Treas. copy
of let. to Sec. Navy, 707; letters ment.
to: Capt. Genl. Cuba, 705, 713, Sec.
Navy, 723; letters to: Sec. Navy, 705–
707, 713, Sec. War, 707–708; letters to,
from: Gregory, 719, Sec. Navy, 723;
note on corresp. and activities of, 705–
706; orders Gregory to investig. illegal
commerce at Key Vaca, 719; orders
vessel to St. Augustine, 854 n.; rept.
re action at Key Vaca, 713; sails from
Cape Henry, 686.
Porter, Francis, witness, 614 n.
Porter, Brig. Gen. Moses, displaced by
Fenwick, 22 n.; infirmity of, 41; let.
to, from Adjt. Genl., 22; instrs. to,
re occup. St. Augustine, 22; mistook
orders re troops for Amelia Island, 41.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1078 I N DE X
for mail transp., St. Augustine-
Pensacola, discussed, 786; estab. of:
Jefferson (Ga.)-St. Augustine, 833,
846, Pensacola-Claiborne (Ala.), 198,
Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell, 737, 766–767,
St. Augustine-Pensacola, 410, 759,
786, St. Marys-St. Augustine, 127;
mail contract awarded on St. Marys-
St. Augustine, 767; recomd. of explor.
of country betw. St. Augustine and
Pensacola for estab. of, 410; route
dropped, 487 n., St. Marys (Ga.)-St.
Augustine, ment., 900.
Potter, Abednego, signer, 322.
Potts, Henry, signer, 292.
Powder magazine and guard house (St.
Augustine), recomd. for use as prison,
202.
Preemption, act permitting right of, 571;
inhabs. E. Fla. desire act to permit
right of, 571.
President, city council (St. Augustine),
appt. of, 120.
President, Monroe, accepts Jackson's
resig., 316, 350, 368, 369; action
awaited re organiz. Fla., 137; acts to
provide temp. govt. for Fla., 107;
advised to assume direct. Fla. affairs,
256–257; advises: Gage to solicit
lenient treat. from Rodman, 980,
preserv. of order among Indians until
Cong. meets, 208 m.; agrees with
Span. minister re removal of Span.
troops before U. S. occup., 14;
alleged misconduct of Steele to be laid
before, 863; appt. of Murray as U. S.
atty. recomd. to, 682–683; appoints:
Baker, inspect. of customs, 56, Beers,
p. m., St. Augustine, 169, Bellamy
to legis. council, 913, Bird, U. S.
dist. atty., 49–50, 100, 168, Blair,
judge sup. ct. (Middle Fla.), 953–954,
Blair and Davis, land commrs.,
805–806, Brackenridge, sup. judge,
451, 954–955, Butler, survr. pub.
lands, 942–943, Bright to legis.
council, 913, Bronaugh to legis.
council, 73 n., civil officers, E. Fla.,
113, commrs. re claims against Spain,
8 n., 56, Compton to legis. council,
913, Doggett to legis. council, 913,
Port Rodgers, name given to harbor
at Thompson's Island (Key West),
386.
Ports of entry, discussed, 476–477;
Fernandina recomd. as, 815–817.
Port warden, Pensacola, appt. of, 131.
Postmaster General, McLean, letters
ment. to: Floyd, 900, p. m. at Clai-
borne (Ala.), 916; letters to: Acosta,
851, Bellamy, 932, Call, 833, 900,
Floyd, 900, Lear, 290, Mitchell,
916–917, 929, 942, Morris, 579,
Penn, 655, Pres., 786, Rosy, 767;
query by, re possible mail carriers
over St. Augustine-Pensacola route,
932; rejects demand for increased
compens. for mail transp., 290.
Postmasters, appt. of, 169, 197; recomd.
for appt., 4–5; duties remail. of news-
papers, 929; no fixed salary, 102;
Span., at Pensacola, 97.
Postoffice Department, lets. recd. file
destroyed, 102 n.
Post offices, to be estab. as recoma. by
Call, 833.
Postal service, capts. of vessels to
deposit incoming lets. in St. Augus-
tine p. o., 127; cost of, from Clai-
borne (Ala.) to Pensacola, 290; dis-
cussed, 851, 942; dispatch from St.
Augustine via Cowford-St. Marys r.
route desired, 655; estab. of St.
Augustine-St. Marys route, 102, 127,
366–367; express mail to W. Fla.
via Milledgeville (Ga.), 70; exten. of,
198, 487, 846, 900, 932; inadequate
to St. Marks, 579; injured mail bags
forbidden, 916; irregularity of, 347,
556; mail arrivals at St. Augustine,
364; oper. in 1821, 54; rq. from
St. Marys to St. Augustine needed
for, 634; route by water, St. Marys-
St. Augustine, unreliable, 366; sched-
ules, 135, 487; ship. of newspapers,
929; status on Pensacola-St. Augus-
tine route, 248. See also Mail Con-
tracts.
Post roads and post routes, advert. for
mail contracts on, 487; authd. by
Cong. betw. Ga. and St. Augustine,
367 n., cost of contract Jefferson (Ga.)-
St. Augustine route, 900; contract
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1079
DuVal, govr., 469–470, DuVal, judge,
E. Fla., 42–43, 55, Forbes, U. S.
marshal, 45–46, 134–135,169, Fromen-
tin, sup. judge, W. Fla., 55, Gadsden
to legis. council, 913, Gaither to legis.
council, 449 n., Hackley, survir.
customs, 56, Hanson, U. S. marshal,
957, Hamilton, land commr., 677,
678, Hamilton, U. S. atty. (E. Fla.
dist.), 413, Hardin, coll. customs,
St. Marks, 56, Hernandez to legis.
council, 913, Jackson, commr. and
govr., 73–74, Jackson, govr., 9–11,
judge for each dist., 55, land commrs.,
656, Luckett, land commr., 849,
Macon, U. S. atty., 680, 806, member
legis. council, 422–423, 640–641,
Mitchell to legis. council, 913,
Murray, land commr. (E. Fla. dist.),
958, Murray to legis. council, 449 n.,
Noriega to legis. council, 913, Rey-
molds to legis. council, 913, Robinson
to legis. council, 913, Rodman, coll.
customs, St. Augustine, 56, 169, Rua
to legis. council, 913, Russ to legis.
council, 913, Scott, coll. customs, 56,
840, secy. for E. Fla., 55, 98, secy. for
W. Fla., 55, 98, Segui to legis. council,
461, J. Smith, sup. ct. judge, 955–956,
W. Smith, U. S. marshal, 639–640,
W. S. Smith, naval officer, 56, Steele,
U. S. atty., 589–590, Walton, secy.,
W. Fla., 43–44, 55, Walton, terr.
secy., 413, White, land commr., 711,
718, 808–809, Worthington, secy.,
E. Fla., 44–45, 55, 91, 124, 175, 180,
345, 353, Wright to legis. council, 913,
Wright, U. S. atty. (Middle Fla.),
956–957; approves: appt. of Gadsden
and Ripley to run Seminole bounds.,
782, 783, appt. of Pénières as subagt.,
28, auth. to DuVal to pay certain
claims, 560, DuVal's plan of run.
bound. line of Seminole Indians, 782,
estab. milit. post at Tampa Bay, 782,
784, Jackson's view re futility of
Indian treaties, 278, sentence of
court martial re Eastman, 782,
Worthington's admin. E. Fla., 381;
at Shannondale Springs, 232; auth.
and power over ceded Fla., 110;
authd. by law to: appt. all higher civil
officials and militia officers, 394,
appt. land commrs., 424, appt. regs.
and recs. of land officers, 638, appt.
second ba. land commrs., 636, appt.
survn. pub. lands, Fla., 427, estab.
ports of delivery, 436, fix compens.
for coll. customs, 830, occupy Fla.,
6–7, 104, open land offices and pro-
claim land sales, 638, open rds., 634,
pay St. Augustine debts, 735, revoke
comms., 254, 255; awaits act Cong.
re perm. govt. Fla. before answering
queries on rel. of civil and milit.
powers, 403; believes: appt. of one
marshal sufficient, 51, cannon included
in cession, 23, exam. and organiz.
E. Fla. archs. should have been com-
pleted, 820, Fromentin to be subject
only to U. S. laws, 260, rights of
Callava violated, 262; cabinet split
re military status of Jackson in Fla.,
21 n.; Callava proposes Vives conf.
with, re problem of ordnance 77;
case of Connor laid before, 499;
cautions Worthington re Span. char-
acter, 239; charges against Steele
laid before, 951, 952, 953, 975;
comments re Fromentin-Callava-Jack-
son affair, 257 n., confers with
Hamilton, 944; continues Walton
and Worthington in office until
further orders, 369; corr. with Sec.
State discussed, 69–70; credentials
to Forbes discussed, 96; criticizes
Jackson, 243; decision requested re:
milit. post at Tampa Bay, 778, run.
bound. line of Seminole reserv., 778,
779; decision to use troops to prevent
ship. and export. of timber from Fla.,
373, 374; desires: DuVal's early
return to duty, 599, Hamilton's
opinion re E. Fla. archs., 964; directs:
appt. of Bell and Pelham, 278, docs.
re Callava affair to be sent to Jackson,
261, delivery of pub. papers to land
commrs., 734, DuVal to join Indian
commrs., 713, keeper of archs. to
deliver pub. docs to land commrs.,
756, new comm. sent to White, 718,
prevent. illegal cut. of timber, 669,
return of DuVal to Fla., 563; dis-
cusses occup. of Fla., 69–70; DuVal
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



1080
I N DE X
requests let. re funds and use of pub.
blogs. be laid before, 471; estabs.:
jud. dists., 55, revenue dists., 50–51,
55; expects early rept. re exam. archs.,
903; explains rel. of milit. and civil
power during temp. govt. Fla.,
402–403; Fromentin's lets. sent to,
262; grand jury present. to be sent to,
296; has no power to authorize a
comm. to try the right of Indians to
retain negro slaves, 821, 296; H. R.
resol. requests, to preserve Span. recs.
relands, 964—965; instrs. asked re civil-
military dispute in E. Fla., 224;
instrs. ment. to Jackson, 230; instrs.
re distrib. pub. blogs., St. Augustine,
285–286; Jackson responsible only to,
253; Jackson's: lets. fund. to, 100, 232,
260, repts. f*.d. to, 172, resig. sent to,
213; jud. dists. estab. by, altered by
Jackson, 160; lets. from DuVal placed
before, 510; lets. re civil-military
dispute in St. Augustine sent to, 224;
letters ment. to: Atty. Genl., 250,
Hamilton, 641, Jackson, 70, 160, 276,
350; letters to: Atty. Genl., 242–243,
Jackson, 53–57, 316, H. R., 402–403,
Sec. State, 47–48, Sec. War, 69–70,
208 n., 782–783; letters to, from:
Atty. Genl., 250–258, 267–269, Bu-
chanan, 415, Call, 859, Clinch,
473–474, DuVal, 406–407, 507–508,
529, 531–532, 852–853, England,
458–459, Hamilton, 641, 677–678,
708, 824–825, 944–945, Hanham,
777, Hernandez, 616, 623–624, 629,
Jackson, 70–71, 156–164, 274–277,
286, 350–351, Kent, 35–36, Mont-
gomery, 3 n., Overton, 678-680,
717–718, PMG, 786, Sec. State, 623,
Sec. War, 224,455, 778–779, Shannon,
317, J. L. Smith, 716–717, Ware and
Overton, 514–515, White, 406, 832–
833; liberal view retreaty of 1819, 142;
lists of appts. by, delivered to
Worthington, 178; may license Indian
traders, 504; memorials submitted
to, 479, 480–481, 493, 521–528;
memorials and petitions to, 183,
480–481, 521–528, 708–704, 762–764;
ment., 37, 40, 217, 245, 265, 300,
456, 461, 462, 490, 583, 595, 682;
messages to Cong.: encla. docs. re
Jackson-Callava affair sent to Jack-
son, 368, discusses recomá. action
estab. new govt. for Fla., 389 n.,
ment., 360, 418, 950; nomins. to legis.
council, 623; non-arrival in E. Fla. of
appointees by, 133; no power to
interfere in civil suits in states and
terrs., 268; on visit to Va., 723;
opinion and instrs. to Jackson re
execu. treaty of 1819, 53–57; opposes:
change in Span. place names, 63,
vote by soldiers, 474; order re Indian
policy awaited by Jackson, 210; orders
discussed or ment. re: Anduaga's lets.
sent to Jackson, 335, distrib. pub.
blogs., 585, 587, let. sent to Walton
on detention of Span. officer, 368,
mark. Seminole reserv., 795, release
of cargo of timber at Amelia Island,
451–452, release of Span. officers, 369,
transf. pub. docs. E. Fla. to land
commrs., 722, suspend. Steele laid
before, 977 n., use pub. blógs. in St.
Augustine, 293; ordinances re W.
Fla. sent for approval, 152; papers re
pub. blógs. for Fla. to be laid before,
604; papers re Steele sent to, 972;
parts of message to Cong. re Indian
affairs to be examd., 582; petition
inhabs. St. Augustine encla. to, 702;
petition to, by inhabs. for return of
fug. slaves, 762–764; plan for transp.
of govt. goods from St. Augustine to
St. Marks to be laid before, 854;
powers authd. by, to Worthington,
443; power of removal of govr., 390;
power to appt. members legis. council,
391; praises Jackson's integrity, 316;
promise to liquidate St. Augustine
debts, 769–770; proposal to rebuild
barracks at Pensacola laid before, 153;
queries by, re: amending comms. for
officials, 47–48, legality of Jackson's
actions against Callava and Fromen-
tin, 242–243, right to order discharge
of Bell from custody, 268; reason for
apptg. Humphreys over Bell as Indian
agt., 450; recomds. army yield to civil
demands where possible, 246 n.:
recomils. for appt. laid before, 10 n.,
35, 44 n., 286–290, 317, 407, 415,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1081
590 n., 591 n., 616, 679–680, 718 n.,
803, 806 n., 814, 849 n., 859, 917 n.,
954 n.; refers request for instrs. re
Seminoles to Sec. War, 57; regrets
dispute of Jackson and Fromentin,
263; rejects plan St. Augustine council
to sell pub. property, 279; rept. to,
re prog. land commrs., 623; requests
guard be placed on revenue cutter,
373; resol. city council, St. Augustine,
to be laid before, 511; responsibility
to: decide on claim of Cavedo, 785–
786, fix compens. of justices, Escambia
Co. ct., 493, 494, fix compens. for
services, 478, set aside area for
Indians, 210, 211; Seminole treaty
sent to, 778, 779; signs acts, 8, 399,
428, 639; signs comms., 9, 11, 19, 43,
44, 45, 46, 50,413, 414, 417,423, 429,
430, 451, 470, 507, 590, 591, 640, 641,
656, 680, 712, 806, 809, 850, 913, 943,
954, 955, 956, 957, 958; solicited to
appt. DuVal govr., 371; Steele
desires let. of defense be laid before,
979; to rec. copy of exec. proceeds.,
666; transmits memorial of legis.
council to Cong., 521 n.; urged to
procure origs. of land titles, 516;
views re: increase in St. Augustine
garr., 63, instrs. to Jackson re treaty
1819, 53–57, possess. of disputed
ordnance, 75–77; Walton appeals to,
for approval of extra allowances, 481,
482; Walton's query re house rent to
be laid before, 457; Worthington
hopes for approval of, 272; writes
from Oak Hill (Va.), 69.
Preston, Francis, of Va., recomas. J.
Preston as govr., 469 n.
Preston, James P., of Va., appa. and
comma. land commr., 428–429; ar-
rival expected by land commrs.,
514; does not arrive to serve as land
commr., 484 n., 514 n., 623, 717;
recomd. as terr. govr., 469 n.; resigns
as land commr., 514 n., 679; rumored
appt. as survi. genl. in Fla., 514–515;
sal. pd. as land commr., 623, 630.
Price, John, grand juror, 822; petit juror,
Priest, Gabriel, grand juror, 960.
Prieto, Felipe, signer, 625.
Prieto, P., claim for timber cut by U. S.
troops, 931.
Prince, Rep. William, of Md., recomds.
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.
Pringle, Abraham, petit juror, 614 n.
Printing of the laws (terr.), acct. for,
encla. to Sec. State, 683, 687; acct. in
irreg. form, 699; contract in Pensa-
cola, 561; Gould's acct. to be pd.,
786–787; no funds to pay cost of, 532;
query re cost of, 683; pd. for by State
Dept., 805; printed in Floridian,
743; work delayed by yellow fever,
561.
Prison (Pensacola), in possess. of civil
author., 600.
Procés-verbal, prepar. of, re Pensacola,
147; required by agree. re transfer,
W. Fla., 123, 124.
Proclamations, by govr. publd. in E.
Fla. Herald, 548; by Spain grant. free
land to aliens, 621; ment. by; Jackson
re oath of alleg. by Span. inhabs.,
339, King of Spain re right of Brit.
subjects to dispose of Fla. land claims,
399, 400, Worthington calling
Seminole conf., 280; texts by: DuVal,
announc. estab. of seat of govt. and
requir. legis. council to assemble, 854–
855, DuVal, annul. trade licenses
granted by acct. Indian agts., 694,
DuVal, prohib. unlicensed persons to
buy livestock and slaves from Indians,
504, Jackson, re occup. Fla., 110–111;
Worthington mistakes intent of Jack-
son's, 239; Worthington's, re health
conds., St. Augustine, 240, 248.
Prosecuting attorneys, appt. of, 133 n.;
E. Fla., appt. and compens. under
Jackson's fourth ordin., 646–647;
W. Fla.: appt. of, 132, compens. in
fees, St. Johns Co., 357; recoma. for
appt., 135.
Provisions, U. S. to furnish to Span.
forces, 23.
Prudhomme, Cer., signer, 310, 315.
Public buildings, query by Butler re
E. Fla., 62.
Public translator, St. Augustine, appt.
of, 121.
935; signer, 478.
Price, Patrick, signer, 478.
Price, S. J., signer, 288, 323.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1082 I N DE X
Puch, Tomas, signer, 310, 315.
Puello, Maria, signer, 761.
Puñon Rostro, Count of, Span. land
grant to, discussed, 6 n.
Pursell, Dugald, signer, 322.
Pursell, Nelt, signer, 322.
Pyles, John, signer, 350.
Quapaw Indians, in Ark. Terr., ment.,
690.
Quartermaster General (act.), Cross,
let. to Thornton, 493.
Quartermaster General, Jesup (Jessup.),
approves Brooke's plan for transp.
troops to Tampa Bay, 834; copy of
sched. pub. property ceded, sent to,
983; corresp. re pub. blags. in St.
Augustine encla. to, 585; defines pub.
blågs. which belong to civil and mil.
auths., 576; expresses desire to settle
in Fla., 940; instrs. by, re St. Augus-
tine-Pensacola rd. survey, 736–737;
letters ment. to: Brooke, 930, Burch,
653, 697, 764, 772, 914—915, Clark,
944, Cross, 30, Hernandez, 940,
Thornton, 493 n.; letters to: Brooke,
834–835, Burch, 605, 676, 683, 736–
737, 837–838, 924, Call, 931–932,
Cross, 22–23, 30, Thornton, 575—576;
letters to, from: Brooke, 930–931,
Brown, 585–586, Burch, 653–654,
697–699, 764–767, 772–774, 835–837,
838, 851, 855–857, 914—915, 927–928,
968, 984–985, Clark, 924–925, 944,
Cross, 81, Fanning, 223–224, Hernan-
dez, 940–942, land commrs. (W. Fla.),
983–984, Myers, 551–552, Thornton,
600–601; lists proofs claimants for
damage to timber must present, 931–
932; map of Ala. sent to, 766; orders:
Bender to hire boats to carry troops
to Amelia Island, 30, best route for
Pensacola-Barrancas rd. be found,
605; orders ment. re: explor. of
Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell rd., 855, pub.
blågs., 600; rept. to, re: build. rds. and
bridges, 851, embark. troops for
Tampa Bay, 835–836; request to, for
copy of schedule pub. property in
Pensacola, 983, 984; requisitions sum
for Burch acct. q. m. dept., 837; to
request approp. by Cong... for St.
Augustine-Pensacolard., 676; Walton
doubts attitude of, re Jackson, 298.
Quesada (Qusada), Juan Nepomuceno
de, Span. govr. E. Fla., corresp. ment.
re Cath. Ch. in St. Augustine, 582;
ordin. of 1790 discussed, 940.
Quigles, Miguel, signer, 289,625.
Quin, James, signer, 288, 321, 625.
Quina, Desiderio, grand juror, 613 m.;
signer, 288.
Quintero, John, witness, 614 n.
Ramage, Capt. James, commands: con-
voy to Havana, 107, schooner Por-
poise, 125, 175, 776; cruises on east
coast Fla., 39 n.; informs Coppinger
of readiness to convoy transports to
Cuba, 60; let. ment. to Coppinger,
60; plans to unite with Kearney in
pursuit of pirates, 259; repts. pirate
fleet, 259.
Ramirez, Salvador, signer, 288, 310,315.
Ramis, Antonio, signer, 309, 314.
Ramsay, H. S., signer, 322.
Randall, Benjamin I., signer, 183.
Randolph, Edmund B., of Va., solicits
post of coll. of customs, Pensacola,
52 n.
Randolph, Gov. Thomas M. of Va., rel.
of Hackley, 56.
Rankin, Rep. Christopher, of Miss., let.
to, from Hernandez, 605–606; ques-
tion laid before, of expense imposed
on land claimants, 605–606; recomás.:
Garnier for appt., 132 n., Ware as
land commr., 429 n.
Rankin, Rep. Christopher, and Holmes
and Williams, desire Sec. State to
inquire at London and Madrid re
certain docs., 400; let. to Sec. State,
399–400; query by, re locus of docs.
pertain. to Brit. land claims in Fla.,
399–400.
Rankins, H. W., of Ky., recomds. Brad-
ford as land commr., 718 n.
Rapid, brought yellow fever from
Havana, 532 n.
Rathbon, H. W., signer, 287.
Rawls (Rauls), Cotton, grand juror, 822.
Rawls, John G., signer, 477.
Read, (Reid) Capt. George C., com-
mands Hornet, 11, 14; illness of, in
For identical names, see indea; note, p. 988



I N DE X
1083
Havana, 140; orders Nonsuch from
Havana to St. Augustine, 89.
Read, William M., indicted for riotous
conduct, 893; signer, 288.
Reaves, Jesse, signer, 814, 817.
Receivers of Land Offices, appt. authd.,
638.
Recommendations, Allen as land
commr., 917; brig. genl. militia, 529;
coll. customs, 17; Copp as U. S. Atty.,
678, 806 n.; Cox as judge, 985–986;
DuVal as govr., 371-372; Gaither as
land commr., 284, 300; Gibson as
dist. atty., 300; govr. 10 n., 469 n.;
Hamilton as U. S. Atty., 414 n.;
Indian agt., 430 n.; King as successor
to Jackson, 286–290; laid before Pres.,
35, 44 n., 46 n.; laid before Sec. State,
44 n., 46 n., 371-372; land commrs.,
428 n., 429 n., 718 n., 846; Law as
land commr., 300; legis. council, 407,
415, 448–450, 490, 616, 682; Mitchel
to legis. council, 629; Murray to legis.
council, 460; names of signers, 287–
290, 318, 371–373, 448–449, 450, 529,
530, facing 702, 985–986; Sebree as
U. S. marshal, 591 n.; Steele as U. S.
atty., 590 n.; sup. judge, 3, 43 n.,
317–318, 954 n.; terr. secy., 44 n.;
U. S. atty., 50 n., 414 n., 531, 682–
683; U. S. marshal, 529–530, 531;
White as land commr., 515; Worth-
ington as terr. secy., 413 n.
Red Bluffs (Ala), trail to, from Pensa-
cola, 698.
Red cedar, illegal cut. of, 370; ship. of,
ment., 693. See also Live Oak;
Timber.
Red Sticks, in Fla., 750; Jackson decides
must return to upper Creeks, or join
Fla. Indians, 226; note re, 226.
Red Town, Indian settle., 463.
Reed, Joseph P., signer, 323.
Rees, John, signer, 288.
Register of naturalization, appt. of,
354 n.
Registers of land offices, appt. authd.,
638.
Reguera, Cayetano, signer, 310, 315.
Reid, Nathan, solicits appt. as dist.
atty., 50 n.
Reid, Rep. Robert Raymond, of Ga.,
recomas.; Flournoy as govr., 10 n.,
Penn as U. S. marshal, 639–640 n.,
Steele as U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.),
414 n., Walton and Beers for office, 5.
Reilly (Riley), George, buys horses
from Indians, 883; conduct of Steele
in case of, ment., 860, 870; engages in
unauthord. Indian trade, 883; motion
for discharge in case of, answd., 878–
882; order for arrest of, 883; sale of
liquor to Indians by, 883; signs bond
for ct. appear., 884. See also United
States v. Reilly.
Religion, freedom of, guaranteed to
inhabs., 397.
Rembert, Alexander, of Ga., recomd. as
U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 414 n.
Remiera, Salvador, witness, 614 n.
Rentey, Felix, signer, 814, 816.
Reprieves, auth. of govr. to grant, 390.
“Resident Inhabitant of East Florida,”
let. to Sec. State, 539–541.
Resident physician, Pensacola, appt. of,
131.
Resolutions, by Ala. Legis. re annex. of
part W. Fla., 308; by Span. citizens
W. Fla., endorsing memorial to Cong.,
311.
Revenge, U.S. schooner, carries Gadsden
to St. Augustine, 135, 146; to remain
near St. Johns r., 430.
Revenue cutter, to be stationed in St.
Johns r. to aid in enforce. of law re
timber depreds., 378.
Revenue districts, bounds of, 55.
Revenue laws, evasion of, 24; under
juris. of terr. judges, 252, 253, 262–
263; violation of, by French vessel,
230.
Reyes, Diego, signer, 288, 309, 314.
Reyes, Domingo, signer, 761.
Reyes, Francisco, alderman, St. Augus-
tine, 358; nativity, 358; signer, 761.
Reyes, John, signer, 814, 816, 819.
Reyes, José B., signer, 371, facing 702,
704, 761.
Reymund, Juan, signer, 309, 314.
Reynolds, G., signer, 816.
Reynolds, R., signer, 813.
Reynolds, Thomas, judge St. Johns
Co., 357; recomma. for legis. council,
For identical names, see indea: note, p. 988



1084
I N DE X
corresp., 745; encl.: expense acct,
903–904, inventory of docs., 903;
explain obstacles to early rept. re
archs., 903–904; letters to: Fatio, 746,
Sec. State, 729—731, 745–746, 903–
904; let. to, from Sec. State, 657;
manner of exam. of archs., 903; query
retention of papers re operations of
U.S. in Fla. prior to 1819,745; refuse
accept. of papers land commrs. re-
turn, 746; rept. re demand of land
commrs. to retain land papers,
729–781.
Rhea, Rep. John, of Tenn., recomds.
Overton as land commr., 428 n.
(Richards), Francis, grand
juror, 797, 963 n.; signer, 477, 566,
760.
616; recomds. Hanham as U. S.
marshal, 639 n.; signer, 566.
Reynolds, William, appd. reg. natural-
iz., E. Fla., 354 n., 362; cand. for
appt. as land commr., 429 m.; commr.
to examine archs.: appd., 657, 820,
encls. acct., 767, pd. for services, 785,
requests settle. of accts., 768, service
in legis. council delays work, 904;
employ. of, 355; fin. acct. sent to Sec.
State, 353; judge of elections, 544,
545; justice of peace and quorum, St.
Johns Co.: appd., 194 n., 354 n., 359,
546, resides on St. Johns r., 441;
keeper of E. Fla. archs.: 575, 657, 729,
965, claims land commrs. demand for
pub. docs. an injury to inhabs., 758,
denies land title papers in possess.,
756, ordered to deliver docs. to land
commrs., 755, 756, 758, refuses de-
mand of land commrs. re transf.
archs. pending further orders, 759,
type of docs. in possess., 756; leaves
E. Fla. for Ga., 567; letters to: Fatio,
758, Macon, 757, Maury, 767–768,
Sec. State, 755–756, 758–759; letter
to, from Maury, 785–786; member bd.
of pilotage, 360; member legis. council:
appd. and commd., 354 n., 423, 640–
641, 913, mileage acct., 630, sal. pd.,
630, recomd. for, 415,423 n., 616, 859,
suspends archs. exam., 729, tenure,
423; nativity, 355, 359, 360; note re,
132 n.; pay for services, 615; private
secy. to Bell: appd., 179, emplyd. as,
353, 354 n., 355, 415, signs comm.,
177; private secy. to Worthington:
emplyd. as, 354, 355, 415, 566, pay
as, 355, removed, 359, services cease,
354, 355, signs notice re naturaliz.,
433; sails from St. Augustine to Pensa-
cola, 489; secy. to archs. commrs.:
appd., 362, 415, 593, recs. compens.
as, 668; signer, 350, 367,448, 529,986;
Richard
Richards, Stephen, advances funds for
expenses of Indian visit to Pensacola,
598; alleged intrigue with Indian
chiefs, 579; annual compens., 519;
appd. Seminole interpreter, 279, 410,
579; acct.: for services as interpreter,
505, sent to Sec. War, 501; attests
copy of DuVal's talk with Seminole
chiefs, 504; commended for services
re Indian treaty, 751; desires pay for
services rendered, 501; difficult to re-
place, 673; emplyd. as interpreter by
Bell, 519; Indian land grant to,
vetoed, 747 n., informs DuVal Indian
chiefs plan to meet at St. Marks as
agreed, 558; investig. of: charges
against, 671, continued, 673; in want
of funds, 598; letters ment. to: DuVal,
558, Jackson, 409; pay sent to DuVal,
597–598; receipt encla. to Sec. War,
598; rift with Doyle, 602; to be dis-
charged if found untrustworthy, 671;
to be paid for services, 654; visits
Pensacola: several times, 501, with
Seminole chiefs, 597; with Nea-
mathla in conf. with Jackson, 210.
solicits appt. as land commr., 415. Richmond, Hathaway, signer, 321.
Reynolds, William, and Alvarez, appt. Richmond (Va.), Yancey from, 724.
to exam. archs. not perman., 903; Rickett, George R. A., witness, 614 n.
await orders from State Dept. re | Ricketts (Rickets), Jacob, petit juror,
accept. of papers returned by land 612.
commrs., 746; compens., 657 n., 658; Ricketts (Rickets), Jacob, Jr., indicted
do not feel authd. to retain certain for riotous conduct, 893.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1085
Ricketts, –, evid. of, in Myers case, 892,
893.
Riena (Riera), Francisco, signer, 310,
315.
Rigolets, in La., ment., 839.
Riley, Henry, petit juror, 611; signer,
290.
Rioboo, Thomas Posse L., signer, 289,
309, 314; witness, 614 n.
Ripley, Maj. Gen. Eleazer Wheelock,
175.
Ripley, Lt. James W., appt. to run Sem-
inole bound.: approved by Pres., 782,
783, approved by Sec. War, 778, 779,
recoma., 753, recomd. by DuVal,
779, 783; assigned to assist Gadsden,
783 n.; commended, 750; compens.
for mark. Seminole bound., 784;
extra compens.: asked for, 794, 796,
to be allowed, 818; in command of
troops on treaty ground, 750; note re,
778; to aid in run. out Seminole
reserv. on complet. of survey, 818.
Risque, James B., of Va., recoma. as
dist. atty., 50 n.
Rivero, Juan, signer, 761.
Rivero, Margarita, signer, 761.
Rivers, navig. rivers to remain pub.
highways, 638.
Rivers (Rivera?), Leonardo, witness,
614 n.
Riz, James, petit juror, 962.
Roach, Allaway, signer, 297.
Road Forks, distance to Pensacola, 487;
postal schedules to Pensacola, 487.
Roads, bill for open., 634–635, Cape
Fla.-St. Lucia impract., 941–942;
Cape Sable-St. Marys, Ga., survey to
begin, 944; Cape Sable via Tampa
Bay to St. Augustine-Pensacola: act
approved for mark., 940 n., to be
survd., 924–925; Colerain-New
Smyrna, opened by British, 634;
descrip. of, in Ala., 764-766; estimate
of cost of open., 635; issue of, to be
laid before Sec. War, 838; lack of:
obstacle to settle., 571, tends to
disunity, 643; memo by Hernandez re,
633–634; memorial to Cong. urges,
571; method of mark. routes, 925;
need for, 540–541, 766; New Smyrna-
St. Marys river, to be opened, 634;
rept. reloc. of new, and estimates for,
764–767; no decision re, 838; open. s.
of St. Augustine deferred, 652; Pensa-
cola-Barrancas: discussed, 653, route
to be found, 605; Pensacola-Blakeley:
cost of improved, 765, rept. re 698–
699; Pensacola-Blakeley-Mobile Point,
milit. value, 765; Pensacola-Cahawba,
Ala.: cost of Fla. part, 766, inhabs.
try raising funds to open Fla. end, 766;
Pensacola-Ft. Mitchell: open. of,
ordered, 924, oper. to open begins,
968, route of proposed, 856; Pensacola-
Mobile, inquiry to be made re, 683;
St. Augustine-Ga., reopen. proposed,
523; St. Augustine-Pensacola: advan-
tages explained, 643, approp. needed,
676, approp. made, 902, approved in
principle, 509, authd. by Cong., 522
n., Burch prepares for survey, 772–
774, cannot be run without Cong.
approval, 509, Cong. action deferred,
654, estimates discussed, 608, 642,
654, estimates sent to Sec. War, 606,
importance to Fla., 606–607, legis.
council proposes new, 522, marking
route assigned to Le Conte, 729,
ment., 857, nearest pract., 522, peti-
tion for, 401, printed corresp. cited,
766 n., proposed route, 608–609,
query re extent of open., 932, question
of route, 606, recomd., 606–607,
recomd. be opened by troops, 492,
642–643, 644, 902, route to be ex-
plored and estimates made, 652, 676,
to be crossed by Cape Sable rq., 924,
work at both ends recomd., 902; St.
Augustine-St. Marys river, opening to
begin, 651–652; work on pub., ment.,
432. See also Pensacola, roads to;
St. Augustine, road to Pensacola.
Robarts, J. W., signer, 477.
Roberts, John B., grand juror, 936.
Roberts, Willis, recomd. as survir., 943
In.
Robertson, Benjamin, see Robinson,
Benjamin.
Robertson, J., of Va., recomd. as dist.
atty., 50 n.
Robertson, Gov. Thomas B., of La.,
let. ment. to Pres. re removal of
For identical names, see indew note, p. 988



1086
I N DE X
troops from Baton Rouge, 778; let.
to Pres. mislaid, 783.
Robertson, William, pd. for services to
St. Augustine, 818 n.; signer, 350;
takes naturaliz. oath, 434. See also
Robinson, William.
Robertson,<-, of Ky., recomds. Luckett
as land commr., 849 n.
Robinson (Robertson), Benjamin, ab-
sence weakens court processes, 506;
appd. and confirm. U. S. marshal W.
Fla. dist., 505 n.; hesitates to accept
appt. as marshal, 505; let. ment. to
Brackenridge, 505; queries by, re
conditions in W. Fla. dist., 505.
Robinson, J. F., of Ky., recomds.
Bradford as land commr., 718 n.
Robinson, James, witness, 937 n.
Robinson, John, signer, 858.
Robinson, Jonathan, appd. and comma.
to legis. council, 913; recomd. for
legis. council, 859.
Robinson, Jonathan W., signer, 289.
Robinson, R. D., signer, 323.
Robinson, Wealthy, witness, 937 n.
Robinson (Robertson), William, alder-
man, St. Augustine, 358; appd. U. S.
marshal, 591 n.; nativity, 358; re-
signs appt. as marshal, 591 n.
Robinson, William B., grand juror, 963
Il.
Robinson,<-, passenger on Enterprise,
631.
Robion (Robiou), Charles, alderman,
St. Augustine, 194 n., 358; appd.
member ba. pilotage, St. Augustine,
121; auctioneer, 361; nativity, 358,
361; petit juror, 799, 962; resigns,
358; signer, 349, 367, 450, facing 702,
761.
Robison, Charles, appd. alderman, St.
Augustine, 133 n.
Robles, Juan José, appd. to rec. rations
from U. S. for convoy, 107 n.
Roch, José (Joseph), signer, 289, 309,
314, 625.
Rocheblave, Francisco, signer, 310, 315.
Rocheblave River, in Ala., road to
Blakeley crosses, 764.
Rock, José, occupies lot at Pensacola,
Rodenburg, Levy Mathias, takes nat-
ural. oath, 434.
Rodericks, Anthony, of S. C., solicits
appt. as U. S. marshal, 46 n.
Rodgers, Capt. John, encla. list of
persons sent to Norfolk, 781; harbor
named for, 386; let. ment. to Sec.
Navy, 780; letters to Sec. Navy,
775–776, 780–781; ordered to Key
West to investig. conditions, 775 m.;
orders removal of sick from Key West
to Norfolk, 775; pres. Bd. Navy
Commrs., 775 m.; recomás. re: admin.
Fla. Keys, 780, Key West as aux-
iliary naval depot, 775 n.; repts.
by, re affairs at Key West, 775–776,
780–781.
Rodman (Rodmon), John, advises appt.
Gibson as j. p., 438; alderman, St.
Augustine, 358; appraises pub. lots,
St. Augustine, 569; assures Hamilton
suit will not be pressed, 710; atty. for
Fairbanks, 246; begins prosecu. of
Gage for viol. slave act, 980; certifies
copy of let. from Sec. Treas., 670;
characterized, 647; coll. of customs and
insp. of revenue, St. Augustine: appd.,
52, 56, 124, 169,360, 647, 658, custom
house assigned to, for occupancy, 306,
denied use of house near custom
house, 245–246, query by Sec. State re
eligible site for port of entry, 476,
recoma. as, 17, recomds. “the Bluff"
for site of port of entry,476, sends Sec.
State lists of passengers from foreign
states, 404, 486, solicits appt. as, 17 n.,
takes measures to enforce rev. laws,
376; complaint re non-receipt of acts
Cong., 486; date of: arrival at St.
Augustine, 169, 170, assum. office, 169
n.; dispute with Bell, 245, 246; E. Fla.
archs. in control of, 657; education,
17; emplyd. to bring libel suit against
Hamilton, 710; informed interpret.
laws re slaves a matter of jud. deci-
sion, 301 n.; informs Sec. State of
official papers stored in Custom
House, 574–575; letters ment. to:
Hamilton, 710, 711, Sec. State, 405,
657; letters to: Hamilton, 710,711, Sec.
State, 300–301, 404–405, 485–487,
574–575, Worthington, 442–444; let-
155.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1087
ters to, from: DuBose, 684–686, Hamil-
ton, 711, Sec. State, 657, Sec. Treas.,
669–670; nativity, 357, 358, 360; non-
arrival of, 124; occupies pub. blog. as
private resid., 731, 732; opens office,
171 n.; opinion re Worthington's view
of status E. Fla. officials, 442–444;
pres. bq. pilotage, 360; prosec. atty.,
St. Johns Co.: appd., 438, 646, com-
pens. discussed, 646–647, succeeds
Murray, 357; query by, re: interpret.
of laws re import. slaves, 300–301,
right of visitors to Havana to take
dom. slaves, 301, status of slaves
taken to Cuba by inhabs. E. Fla.,405;
recomds. exam. of papers stored in
Customs House, 575; rept. to, re Fla.
Keys, 684–686; requests instrs. re
slave acts, 405; signer, 350, 367, 401,
448, 450, 530, 816; to deliver boxes of
archs. to examiners, 657; will aid in
enforc. law against timber thieves,
383.
Rodman, John, and Drysdale, agree
with Worthington re status co. ct.
during interregnum, 442–446; confer
with Worthington, 441; lets. to, from
Worthington, 440–442.
Rodney, Rep. C. A., of Del., recomds.
DuVal as govr., 372 n.; state. re
seizure archs. sent to, 365.
Rodriquez, Nicholas, signer, 762.
Rodriquez, Pedro, signer, 760.
Rogero, Ramon, appa. dep. police
officer, St. Augustine, 120; signer,
facing 702.
Rogers, Charles W., recomds. Jackson
as survi., 943 n.
Rogers, Francisco, signer, 704.
Rogers, James, signer, 323.
Rogers (Rodgers), Capt. John, military
storekeeper, New Orleans, ordered to
prepare sea biscuit ration for Span.
troops, 40.
Rogers, John A., signer, 310, 315, 323.
Rogers, Silas, capt. of the Alexander, 88.
Rogers, Lt. Stephen M., in comma.
marine guard on Key Vaca, 719.
Rogers, Rep. Thomas J., of Pa.,
recomds. DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Roman Catholic Church (St. Augus-
tine), church property belongs to
congreg., 458–459, 498; laws passed
confirm. congreg. in ownership of
church property, 498 m.; let. re, from
Hamilton, 501; question of title to
property, 581–582; rel. to U. S. in
Fla. explained, 458–459; right of
Span. king to grant lands to, dis-
cussed, 492; under bishop of Havana,
prior to cession of Fla., 459.
Rome (Italy), negots. under way with
papacy re status of ch. in St. Augus-
tine, 459.
Rooden, Andrew de, takes naturaliz.
oath, 434.
Root, Capt. Chester, company moved
to Camp Manuels, 92.
Rosa, a slave, 324.
Roses Bluff, grand jurors from, 822.
Rosete, Pablo, signer, 761.
Ross, Francis J., petit juror, 934.
Ross, John, signer, 310, 315.
Ross, Rep. Thomas H., of Ohio,
recomds. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Rosy, Gasper, p. m., Fernandina, let.
to, from PMG, 767; memorial ment.
remail contract, 767; signer, 816, 819.
Rouley (Rowley?), Hugh, signer, 858.
Rouse, James, petit juror, 823.
Rousseau, Capt. Lawrence, U. S. Navy,
bears let. from Ayers to Sec. Treas.,
852.
Rousseau, Mozea, signer, 321.
Rovira, Francisco, signer, 367, 37 .
Rowan, John, of Ky., recomás.: Blair
as judge, 43 n., Blair as terr. secy.,
44 n.
Rowdon, W., signer, 289.
Rowe, Pierce (Bierce), agent for heirs
of John Forbes, 762; petit juror, 799,
962, 963 n.; signer, 762, 986.
Rowland, David, grand juror, 614 n.,
790, 889; signer, 287, 893.
Rowley, Hugh, petit juror, 799.
Rowley, Robert, signer, 764, 858.
Rowls, Cotton, Jr., signer, 478. See
also Rawls.
Rowse, James, signer, 477.
Royal orders, by Span. govrs., E. Fla.,
reg. free grants of land, 621–622.
Rua (Lara; Larua; Ruca), John (Juan)
dela, affid. of Gerrish sworn to before,
886, 887; applies for habeas corpus
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1088 I N DE X
writ re Callava, 185; appa. and
comma. to legis. council, 490 n., 537,
913; comm. to legis. council sent to
DuVal, 510; grand juror, 896; mayor
of Pensacola, 629, 886; on comm.
to wait on Fromentin, 311; presides
at meet. Span. citizens, 311; recs.
rent for blag. used as ct. house, 663;
recoma. for legis. council, 490, 616,
629, 803, 859; signer, 289, 309, 311,
314, 625; surety for Callava, 187;
witness, 614 n.
Ruby, Salvador, signer, 310, 315.
Ruggles, Sen. Benjamin, of Ohio,
recomas.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Rumsey, Joseph, signer, 321.
Rupp, Lt. Joseph D., in charge of pub.
property until Eustis' arrival, 197.
Rush, Richard, U. S. minister to Eng-
land, 633 n.
Rushing (Rushen), John G., petit
juror, 823.
Rushton, James, witness, 614 n.
Rushton, --, testimony in Gerrish as-
sault case, 884.
Russ, James B., witness, 937 n.
Russ, Joseph, grand juror, 936.
Russ, Thomas, appd. and comma. to
legis. council, 913; recomma. for legis.
council, 859; witness, 937 n.
Russ, William, witness, 937 n.
Rutan, Antonio A., petit juror, 799.
Rutan, O., signer, 986.
Rutledge, Edward A., compens. of, 348
n., 632; transl. and interpret. for Jack-
son in Fla., 348 n.
Rutledge, --, certif. ment., 150.
Saavedra (Savedra), Ruperto, declines:
appt. as co. judge, 358, oath of alleg.,
358; nativity, 358; mal-admin. as
Span. judge alleged, 438. See also
McHardy v. Saavedra.
Sabate, Pablo, signer, 371, 704, 761.
Sabate, Ramon, petit juror, 963 n.
Sacks, James, witness, 614 n.
Sailors Rights, a sloop, captured for pi-
racy, 405.
St. Anastasia (Anastacia), see Anastasia.
St. Anastasia Island, lighthouse on, dis-
cussed, 651 m.
St. Andrews Bay, improv. of navig. to
Apalachicola r. urged, 789.
St. Andrews Island, in Bahama Islands,
fug. slaves on, 745.
St. Augustine, absence of legal govt., 60;
acct. of meet. of Amer. cits., 119; appt.
of recorder and translator recoma. for,
reland claims, 620; Arredondo resides
at, 213; at e. edge of land fit for settle.,
233; bank of Charleston, S. C., holds
notes of, 735; begin. of sup. ct. sess.
at, 677; Bell's court martial held at,
409; Bethune leaves, 593; Bird to re-
side at, 51; blank comms. for branch
pilots for port of, delivered to Worth-
ington, 178; bal. of health: resol. for
removal of hospital, 219, resol. sent
to Eustis, 214; bounds. to be fixed by
Worthington, 134; Brit. plat of, be-
lieved in State Dept., 485; Burch re-
turns to Pensacola from, 856; change
in name of fortress, 63 m.; city council:
act vetoed giving right to tax, 432,
769, blank comm. for, sent to Worth-
ington, 178, desires Ft. St. Marks
transfö. to civil authority, 511, elected
by virtue of act of legis. council, 769,
Jackson decrees right to levy and coll.
taxes, 769, meet. of first, under U. S.,
194, members under Span. decline
appt., 193, memorial ment. re dona-
tion of pub. property, 644, memorials
to Cong. for pub. property, 332–333,
568, need of, for reserv. of pub. prop-
erty, 644–645, sale of pub. property
declared illegal, 279; claimants to tim-
ber to apply to dist. atty. at, before
cutting, 726; coll. of customs: appd.
at, 658, post solicited, 52 n., Rodman
appd., 56, sal. fixed for, 840; com-
manding officer at, to furnish guard for
bound. survºs., 783; corporation debts:
amt. of, 617, 735, city govt. appd. by
Jackson incurred, 769, creditors to be
pd. by W. Smith, 818, explan. of delay
in paying, 744, discussed,735–736, in-
adeq. of revenue, 332, indiv. creditors,
770, loc. of record of, 818 n., papers
re, sent to Sec. State, 301, settle. de-
sired, 724, to be pd. by U. S., 635,782,
792, taxes suspended acct. epidemic,
271, 617, Treas. draft sent for, 804;
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1089
Walton to attend, 665, 769; lighthouse
at: approp. for, 523 n., needed, 523,
provided for, 571 n., urged, 571; may-
or: acct. suspended for lack of vouch-
ers, 596 n., advised to delay tax coll.,
266, certif. re services, 597, let. to,
from Worthington, 265, 267, requests
funds from Fed. govt., 617 (see also
Forbes, James Grant); memorial of
lot-holders for confirm. of titles, 759–
762; ment., 11, 14, 17 n., 30, 31, 114,
154, 165, 175, 205, 209, 337, 380, 401,
476, 554, 623, 657, 754, 922, 944, 950;
municipal organiz. estab. for, 151; mu-
tual suspicions of new and old inhabs.,
118, 119; newspaper in: E. Fla. Herald,
645, prints terr. acts, 743, publs.
U. S. laws, not seen in Pensacola, 682,
sent to Sec. State, 136; no appts. by
Bell to bd. of pilotage, city surveyors
and engineers, health physician, and
pilots, 179; no fixed salary for p. m.,
102; no funds for prosec. of criminals,
688; no rd, to St. Marks, 854; no tran-
sit to Fla. Keys, 821; not fit loc. for
seat terr. govt., 349; offices for civil
and milit. officials discussed, 181-182,
190-191, 195-196, 197; old inhabs. de-
cline office because of alleg. to Spain,
194; ordinances: issued by Jackson
sent to, 157, re city council believed
continued, 444, re organiz. sent to
Worthington, 133; Pelham: absent
from, 697, to rept. to Bell at, 264;
petit jurors from, 798, 799, 800, 961-
962; plan for removal of Span. ord-
nance from, 103; popul. of terr. di-
vided betw., and Pensacola, 643; port
of entry, 55; postal service to Ga.:
authd., 367 n., memorial for, 366-367;
postal service to Jefferson, Ga.; con-
tract for, 900, mail to be conveyed by
land, 833, opened, 846, schedules, 487;
postal service to Pensacola: estabd.,
579, 786, query re, 932, recomd., 410,
schedule, 487; postal service to St.
Marks, contract, 487 n., postal service
to St. Marys, Ga.: contract awarded
to Floyd, 767 n., estab., 102, sched-
ule, 127; prison: needed, 511, 540, no
funds to erect, 511; prisoners confined
at milit. post for desertion, 725; prob-
corresp. with Pensacola officials drops
off, 354; dispute betw. civil and milit.
powers: corresp. re sent to Jackson,
304, discussed, 604, 645, re use of pub.
blogs., 215–218,224,585–589,781-732;
distanceto: Buena Vista,363, Choctaw-
hatchee r., 609, head of Matanza r.,
633, Jefferson, Ga., 487, Matanzas,
941, Pensacola, 487, 555, 630, 631,
643, Pensacola via water, 554; dist.
judge under temp. govt. appd. for,
242; DuVal: arrives at, 647, leaves,
837, plans to visit, 649, procl. re trade
licenses issued at, 694, to advert. in,
for Indian rations, 939, to reside at,
51; expenses of elec. for terr. deleg.,
714–715; factions reptd. in, 649; For-
bes native of, 356; Gadsden: leaves on
mission re Seminole bound., 802, to
return after complet. Seminole
bounds., 850; Gaither an atty. in,
679; goods of wrecked ships to be
transfj. to, to await legal proceeds.,
723; govt. records: must be sent to St.
Marks, 853–854, to be transfö. to new
capital, 907; grand jurors from, 797,
798, 960–961; Hackley to reside at,
52; Hamilton: dislikes inhabs., 708,
signs affid. at, 710; hdqrs. second bri-
gade militia, 722; Hynes leaves for
Pensacola, 567; inhabs. recomd.: Du-
Val as govr., 371-372, W. Smith as
U. S. marshal, 529–530; Jackson: anx-
iety re transf. of, 146, appts. mayor
and council, 769, dissolves govt. of,
by ordin., 769, unable to visit, 226,
298; judge at, 4 n.; Kings Road to
New Smyrna run by Brit., 366 n.;
land commrs. (E. Fla.): adjud. land
claims to be held at, 424, 428 n., can-
not remove to, at time set by law,
563, exten. of sessions recoma., 564,
seat of, 755, to convene at, 424-425
n.; lands in 1822, 60; Law leaves for
Pensacola, 687; law suit in, 267–269;
legis. council: acts sent to, 663, mem-
bers not arrived in Pensacola, 456,
members sail for Pensacola, 489, per-
sons recomd. for appt. to, 616; legis.
council session at: begin. of, 677, 687,
date of, 536, 537, DuVal arrives for,
675, 677, DuVal fails to attend, 555,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
801867–67–70



1090
I N DE X
of sending Alva to, from Pensacola
discussed, 90; publ. blags, and prop-
erty: act. govr. entitled to occupy,
304, appeal to city council to evaluate,
190-192, appraised, 568, city council
requests, 332–333, council comm. rept.
re, 200–205, described, 200–205, distrib.
betw. civil and milit. powers, 285–286,
306–307, note re source inform. on
distrib., 586 n., occupied by milit.
officers, 181, 182, problem of surrender
discussed, 68, repair of, 164, rept.
ment. re cond., 302–303, valuation of,
569; register pub. officials in, 358; rels.
with Indians: conf. to be near, 694,
favored as site for negots., 659 n., 660,
Indians to be informed re friendly at-
titude of U. S., 165, limited, 691, no
ordin. re sale of liquor, 495, officer to
supply Indian commrs. with guard,
713, protective measures proposed,
233, Seminole chiefs visit, 212, Semi-
noles appear after transfer to U. S.,
119, Seminoles can cut communic.
with Pensacola, 533–534; relinq. of
ordnance to U. S. discussed, 67–68;
removal of Span. troops: arrival of agt.
with instrs., 80, 81, discussed, 59, docs.
re, 19–20, 22–24, 28, 29–35, 46–47, 48–
49, 59–65, 66-70, 72–73, 79–81, 83–84,
85–88, 95–97, 99–100, 102–103, 106,
107–109, 110–113, 114–116, 124–125,
dupl. orders sent to Span. govr. di-
rectly and via Pensacola, 84, effect
of, 136, plan for, 14, 15, 16, query by
Butler re no., 62, to Havana, 20; re-
pair of fort, 125, 127; rept. re condi-
tions in, 136; resol. of mayor and
council, 218; rd. to head of Matanza
r. to be opened, 633; ra. to Pensacola:
approp. made for, 902, approp. re-
quired for, 676, approved in principle,
509, 519, bill for, 634, Burch prepares
to survey, 772–774, course of, 634, new
post rq., 487 n., distance, 609, petition
for, 401, proposed, 522, 857, proposed
route, 608–609, recoma., 492, 606–607,
634, route to be survd., 676, survey
to begin, 736, to be crossed by rq.
from Cape Sable, 924, to be explored
and estimates made, 652, to be mark-
ed, 729, urged, 502, 642, 643 (see
also Pensacola, rd. to St. Augustine;
Roads); ra. to St. Marys r.: needed
for mail service, 634, to be opened,
651–652; rq. to Tomoca and New
Smyrna, needed, 634; Rodman to re-
side at, 52; Roman Cath. Congreg.:
death of pastor, 458, property belongs
to, 498, question of title to property,
581–582; seat of: customs office, 51,
dist. atty., 49-50, govt., E. Fla., 42,
55, jud. dist. for E. Fla., 51,392,393,
954 n.; Span. archives at: alleged at-
tempt of Span. to carry away, 338–
339, discussed, 36–37, by agree., not
to be removed, 345, exam. of, 820,
Gay appd. to investig., 175, 176–177,
Jackson's explan. of seizure, 335–343,
keeper to deliver pub. papers to land
commrs., 784, papers of city engr. be-
lieved taken to Havana, 346, query
by Sec. State re seizure, 327, seized by
U. S., 239, stored in Customs House,
574 (see also Archives); Span. officials
receive foreign goods prior to sur-
render of, 24; temp. organiz. of, 120–
121; transfer of E. Fla. occurs in, 111,
112; under Spain: govt. of, 769, prin-
cipal settle. in E. Fla., 522, use of
certain land as commons, 568, weak-
ness, 857; U. S. occupation: assigned
to Butler, 32-35, Butler's comm., 34–
85, Gaines not avail. for, 20, plans
discussed, 47, troops designed for, 22,
30, troops from Boston for, 41; U.
S. troops in: Eustis commands, 385,
plan for housing, 274, reinforce. from
Charleston recomd., 902; value of in-
ferior ct., 524; vessel ordered to, 864
n.; Worthington: to proceed to, 45 n.,
to reside at, 51 (see also Worthington,
William G. D.); yellow fever in: ment.,
581, prevalence, 266, 271, 273–274,
300, 595, 617, 635, 646, 667, 770,
procl. re, 248, return feared, 331, sub-
sides, 302. See also City Council (St.
Augustine); East Florida.
St. Carlos de Barrancas, import. to Pen-
sacola, 526; note re, 92. See also
Barrancas; Ft. Barrancas.
St. Cyr, Manuel, signer, 310, 315.
St. Cyr, Tomas, signer, 310, 315.
St. Francis Barracks (St. Augustine), as-
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N D E X 1091
signed to milit, author., 286, proposed
for use as college, 586.
St. John de los Remedions (Cuba), in
rel. to Key West, 411.
St. Johns, ment., 30; survi. and inspect.
revenue appd. for port of, 658.
St. Johns County, alleged interfer. of
sheriff in elec., 545; amt. fees of judges
in, 357; appts. in: discussed, 195, Han-
ham as sheriff, 134, 777, Reynolds as
keeper archs., 575 n.; blank comms.
for officers sent to Worthington, 178;
coroner unable to give bond, 540; ct.
in operation, 241; in second brigade
militia, 659 n.; judicial affairs dis-
cussed, 437–446; memorial for post
route thru Ga. to, 366–367; no funds
to erect jail, 511; query re, in marshal's
acct. of expense of prisoners, 667; reg-
ister of pub. officials, 357–358, 359;
resid. of: Hernandez, 859, Mitchell,
859, Reynolds, 859; sheriff unable to
give bond, 540; sup. ct. processes to
be served by sheriff of, 666.
St. Johns County Court, appeal of Mc-
Hardy v. Saavedra case from, 440;
appt. of prosec. attys., 646–647; ceases
to exist. 486; fees as compens. of clk.,
357; instrs. to, re jury trials, 421–422;
judges of: lack office space, 191, sala-
ries, 361 n., 493, 632, 661; let.to, from
Worthington, 421–422; to meet twice
yearly and not monthly, 420–421; un-
popular, 357; vacancy in, 357; Worth-
ington believes powers continue until
succeeded in fact by officials of new
govt., 440-441.
St. Johns River, area explored by Brown,
212; cedar timber taken on brig in,
376, 384; charted by DuVal., 285; con-
tractors for U. S. Navy cut timber on,
376; cut timber shipped on, 370; e.
bound. of good land, 233; foreign car-
goes landed on, 24; foreign vessels on,
not to be interfered with, 29; grand
jurors from, 797, 934, 960; gun boat
to join the Spark on, 378; horse thief
arrested on, 179; Indian rations to be
issued on, 940 n.; Indian title to lands
w. of, 644; Jenkins sent to, by Rod-
man, 383; lighthouse: provided for, 57.1
n., urged, 571; live oak shipped from,
794; ment., 47 n., 234, 802; need for
rd. to Alachua country stressed, 902;
Ocklawahaw r. empties into, 464; Pé-
nières holds talks with Indians on, 126;
persons living on, recomd. for legis.
council, 616; petition of inhabs.: re-
comd. Jacksonville as port of entry,
477–478, sent to Sec. State, 476; petit
jurors from, 798, 823, 961, 963; Pi—
colata on, 634; provisions for troops
open. rd. to be deposited at, 609; pro-
posed Pensacola-St. Augustine râ. to
cross at Picolata, 609; timber depreds.
on: illegal cutting, 363, 370, naval
forces operate to prevent, 373, 374,
377–378, 407-408; seized cargo to be
released, 451–452, situation re, 430–
431 (see also Timber); vessel in, to
ship timber to England, 375.
St. Louis (Mo. Terr.), center of Indian
manag. w. of Miss. r., 689.
St. Lucie River, rd. to Cape Fla.impract.,
941–942.
St. Marks, arrange. for evacua. discussed,
141-142; artillery transfö. to Pensa-
cola, 915; commrs. to meet at, to
select site for terr. capital, 853 n.,
855 n.; customs dist. within jud. dist.
of Pensacola, 51; customs office: estab.
at, 51, Hardin appa. coll., 56, sal.
fixed for coll., 840, survr. and inspect.
revenue appd. for, 658; distance south
from proposed Pensacola-St. Augus-
tine rq., 609; DuVal: sails for, 979,
to plan execu. Seminole treaty at, 964;
estab. and loc. of, 21 n.; Fenwick
commands troops at, 385; Gaines to
sail to, 348; Hardin to reside at, 52;
Humphreys: absent from, 694, sails
from Pensacola to, 607; Indian agency:
loc. of, 671, 681, recoma. as site for,
410, 598, 602; ment., 92, 754, 838;
military post: aband. discussed, 807,
DuVal recomas. re-estab. of, 832,
order for evacu. of, ment., 787; milit.
supplies to be transpa. to Pensacola,
914, 915, 916; mission of Wright to,
ment., 576; occupation: by troops from
Ft. Gadsden, 20, 33, 53, by U. S., 101,
instrs. to Gadsden re, 53 n., Jackson
recs. word of, 109; on Pensacola-St.
Augustine post rq., 487, 57.9; order to
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1092
I N DE X
Johns r. to be opened, 633; survey of,
begun, 808.
St. Nicholas, grand jurors from, 960.
St. Pablo, timber shipped from, 407.
St. Rosa's (Choctawatchie) Bay, land
to Yellow Water r. to be examd., 736;
ment., 737.
St. Rose's Channel, St. Augustine-
Pensacola rd. to terminate betw., and
Pensacola Bay, 634.
St. Sebastians, grand jurors from, 960.
St. Stephens (Ala.), road to: Claiborne,
765, Taitsville, 765.
Sala, Alfonso de, signer, 309, 314.
Salas, Juan P., sells Key West to Simon-
ton, 352 n., 462.
Salazar, Antonio, signer, 289, 309, 314.
Sale, Edmund, of Va., recomd. as dist.
atty., 50 n.; solicits post of coll. of
customs, Pensacola, 52 n.
Salmon, Hilario de Rivas y, charge
d'affairs, Spain, 260; let. ment. to
Sec. State, 260, 262; protests arrest of
Callava, 260.
Salt, deposits in s. Fla., 382; shipped to
W. Fla. from Nassau, 701.
Saltonstall (Saltonstill), William, case
against, by U. S., 66 n.; estate ad-
ministered, 648; owns valuable tim-
ber land, 648; signer, 309, 314.
Sambo Keys, lighthouse authd. for, 651
Il.
Sampson, H. B., contract with, for brig
William and Mary, 835 n.
Sanchez, Antonio, signer, 289.
Sanchez (Saucher), Bernardo (Ber-
nardino) S., petit juror, 799, 963 n.;
ment., 820; signer, 764, 858.
Sanchez, Francis (Francisco) P., appd.:
aid to Hernandez, 721, member ba.
of health, St. Augustine, 121, member
bd. of pilotage, St. Augustine, 121;
petit juror, 799; represents minor
children of F. X. Sanchez, 762, 764;
signed for by J. M. Sanchez, 858;
signer, 350, 367, 371, 530, 568, facing
702, 704, 761.
Sanchez, Francis R. (Roman), appd.
j. p. (upper dist. St. Johns r.), 121;
grand juror, 797; signed for by J. S.
Sanchez, 858; signer, 764; takes
naturaliz. oath, 485.
officer desired for troops to guard
survis., 753; postal service: comment
re, 579, inadequate, 579; provisions
for troops open. rd. to be deposited
at, 609; pub. blags. avail. for civil
govt., 837; pub. property: not movable
to be secured, 837, to be removed,
836; Reilly sells liquor to Indians near,
883; removal of Span. troops: plan
agreed to, 71 n., plan approved by
Callava, 138, plan for, 14 n., to Pensa-
cola, 53; Richards visits, 505; seat of
govt. located near, 853; Seminole conf.:
appd. for, 501, 502, 533, 547, 549, 558,
failure of govr. to attend, noted, 542,
Indians arrive for, 597, ment. as site
of, 660, rept. re, 577–579; ships de-
tained at, by weather, 147; sickly state
of, 534; Span. evacu. ment., 144, 145,
147; Span. ordnance: Callava requires
receipt for, 142, left to U. S., 101, to
be retained if possible, 53, transfer
authd., 142, worthless, 153; supplies
destined for, 138; transports arrive at
Pensacola from, 147; vessel sent to,
to remove Span. troops, 98. See also
Fort St. Marks.
St. Marks River, Indian settle.: at head
of, 463, betw., and Oclockney r., 464;
ment., 234; St. Augustine-Pensacola
rd. to pass thru head of, 634.
St. Marys (Ga.), Elton writes from, 407;
Fernandina attached to customs dist.
of, 815; ment., 678; postal service to
St. Augustine: contract, 487 n., con-
tract awarded to Floyd, 767 n.,
estabd., 102, route, 900, route by
water unreliable, 366, schedule, 127;
survey of rd. to Cape Sable to begin,
944; weekly mail to Fernandina
authd., 851.
St. Marys River, Apollo on, 593;
bounds revenue dist., 55; distance to
St. Augustine, 633; French vessel
seized on, 30 n.; grand jurors from,
822, 933; ment., 370; persons living
on, recoma. for legis. council, 616;
petit jurors from, 823, 934, 935;
roadsto: Cowford needed for mail serv-
ice to St. Augustine, 634, St. Augus-
tine to be opened, 651–652, St.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I ND E X
1093
Sanchez, Francis X., minor children of:
represented by F. P. Sanchez, 764,
signers, 762.
Sanchez, John M., grand juror, 963 n.;
petit juror, 963; signed for by J. S.
Sanchez, 858; signer, 762, 764.
Sanchez, Joseph (José) M., grand juror,
961; signer, 367, 372, 450, 761, 858;
signs for F. P. Sanchez, 858.
Sanchez, Joseph (José) Simeon, appd.
dep. police officer, St. Augustine, 120;
atty. for lot holders, 760; case against,
by U.S., 66 n.; grand juror, 798; petit
juror, 799; signer, 350, 371,448, 450,
facing 702, 704, 762, 764, 858, 986.
See also Segui, Bernardo, Sanchez and
Fatio.
Sanchez, Magdalena, signer, 760
Sanchez, Maria B., signer, 762.
Sanchez, Ponce Joseph, estate of, lot
holder, 761.
Sanchez, Ramon, signer, facing 702.
San Diego, grand jurors from, 797.
Sand Key, lighthouse recoma. for, 388.
San Domingo, Robion native of, 858.
Sands, Ray, signer, 401.
Sands, , contractor, loads
with live oak for naval use, 431.
Sans, Mariana, signer, 761.
Sansa, Luis, signer, 288.
Santa-fee-talofa, Indian settle., 463.
Santa Rosa Island, important to Pensa-
cola, 526.
Santiago, Ramon, signer, 309, 314.
Santos, Jose, signer, 310, 315.
Sarton, John B., of N. J., solicits post of
coll. of customs, Pensacola, 52 n.
Sauls, Samuel, petit juror, 823.
Saunders, William H. G., grand juror,
933; signer, 566, 819.
Sausa, Antonio, signer, 309, 314.
Savage, Paul, signer, 287.
Savannah (Ga.), revenue cutter at, 372;
to supply boats for removal of Span.
from E. Fla., 15.
Savannah (Ga.) Customs House, coll.
seizes cargo of Only Daughter, 795.
Sazerac, B., petit juror, 963 n.
Schurlock's (Sherlock's) ferry, on
Conecuh r., 856; route by, to Ft.
Mitchell chosen, 924.
Scotland, birthplace of: Mitchell, 358,
Robinson, 358, Walker, 356.
Scott, Alexander, advice requested reloc.
and construc. of Pensacola lighthouse,
650; appd. coll. customs, Pensacola,
52, 56, 658, 840; finds no lawful way
to stop timber depreds., 584; let.
ment. to Smith, 198; lets. to Newton,
830–831; let. to, from Pleasonton,
650; note re, 52; petitions Cong. for
salary, 840–841; proposes salary for
coll. customs, Pensacola, 830–831;
recomds.: abolition of customs office
at Pensacola, 831, Myers as coll.
customs, Pensacola, 551; refuses to
care for ill sailors, 507; repts. small
income from Pensacola customs office,
830; requested to deposit depositions
re Steele in State Dept., 871; resigns
as coll. customs, Pensacola, 551, 584;
salary provided by act of Cong., 841
n.; suit against, 740.
Scott, Alexander, Jr., act. coll. customs,
Pensacola, presence of slaves on
Thomas Shields expla. to, 876–877;
affid. re Brackenridge's unfavor. state.
on Steele, 878; applic. to, for clearance
of vessel, ment., 893; client of Steele,
862; in rel. to Steele case, 975, 978;
letters ment. to: Brackenridge, 739,
861, 912, Chew, 741, Steele, 740;
letters to: Brackenridge, 740–741, Sec.
State, 912, Sec. Treas., 693, Steele,
742; letters to, from: Chew, 741, Steele,
742–743; rel. to proceeds. against the
Thomas Shields, 867–869; requests
Steele to enter suit against Forsyth,
740; rift with Steele, 862; suspended
and restored to duty, 198 n.; takes
oath as customs inspect., Pensacola,
198; tenure as customs inspect., 198
n.; will investig. timber depreds., 693.
Scott, Rep. (Del.) John, of Mo., recomas.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n., Luckett as land commr.,
849 n.
Scott, Maj. Gen. Winfield, approves sen-
tence of Bell, 409 n.; Brooke's let to
comd. genl. sent to, 919; ment., 783;
ordered to use milit. force to preserve
timber on pub. lands, 674–675; orders
troops in E. Fla. to aid in enforce.
boat
For identical names, see indea: mote, p. 988



1094 I N DE X
law against timber depreds., 378–379;
retained in service, 21 n. See also
Gaines, Edmund P., and Scott.
Scott, —, passenger on Enterprise, 631.
Scurry, Daniel, signer, 478.
Sea Island cotton, 848.
Sebree, William, directs repairs to pub.
blågs. for use as courthouse and jail,
770; in alleged combine against Steele,
977; let. ment. to Johnson, 807; letters
to: Maury, 770–771, Sec. State, 676–
677; non-arrival of, 648; query remode
of pay for repair of pub. blogs., 771;
requests: copies U. S. laws, 677, settle.
of accts., 807; to visit Ky., 771; U. S.
marshal (W. Fla. dist.): acks. receipt
of comm., 676, appd. and comma.,
590–591, comm. sent to Brackenridge,
647, declines to act re timber depreds.
for lack of process, 700, 701, holds
bond for appear. of Reilly in ct., 883,
ordered to arrest Reilly, 883, state.
re grand and petit jurors, 938, tenure,
591; visits Ky., 807.
Secopoly (Cercopoly 7), John, signer,
814.
Secretary, Land Commissioners, appt.
authd.,425; compens., 425,426; duties
and qualifics., 425.
Secretary, St. Augustine, appt. of, 120.
Secretary of the Navy, Southard, Gads-
den requests, deploy small war vessels
along w. coast, 796; letters to, from:
DuVal, 853–854, Rodgers, 775–776,
780–781, Steele, 791-792, 809–810;
query to, re transp. of witnesses to
murder trial in naval vessels, 821; to
order vessels into Tampa Bay, 817.
Secretary of the Navy, Thompson, ad-
vises: govt. has no inform. re bound.
betw. pub. and private land, 417, Sec.
War of decision to use troops in E.
Fla. to stop export of timber, 373; in-
formed: re detention of ship with illegal
cut timber, 436, Sec. War orders guard
placed on revenue cutter, 374; instrs
by, re exam. and survey of Key West,
362–363; letters ment. to: Elton, 408,
McLane, 370; letters to: Elton, 377–
378, 417–418, Perry, 862–363, Porter,
723, Sec. Treas., 372, 451–452, Sec.
War, 373; letters to, from: Adjt. Genl.,
374, Elton,407-409,430–431, McLane,
370–371, Perry, 385–388, Porter, 705–
707, 713; orders: Perry to leave officer
and man on Thompson's Island (Key
West) to retain possess., 389, Perry
to take possess. of Thompson's Island,
388, release of cargo of timber at Ame-
lia Island, 451–452; query for inform.
re act for preserv. timber in Fla., 370;
recomas. G. L. Thompson as terr.
secy., 44 n.; rept. to, re: exped. to Key
West and its explor. and condition,
385–388, naval aid to prevent illegal
ship. of timber, 430–431.
Secretary of State, Adams, absence of,
734; appeal to, for aid to distressed
St. Augustine, 617; appts. comm. to
exam. Span. archs., E. Fla., 767; ap-
proves: author. to Walton to act as
govr., 403, pay of mayor of Pensacola,
227 n., believes: church property in
St. Augustine belongs to Roman Cath.
congreg., 498, E. Fla. delivered, 102,
exam. and organiz. E. Fla. archs.
should have been completed, 820, Pres.
should direct Fla. affairs, 256 n.; cor-
resp. with: Jackson delivered to Worth-
ington, 177–178, Jackson re Callava
affair listed, 262, Pres. discussed, 69–
70; desires jud. dept. to function with
evacu. of E. Fla., 101; disapproves of:
dilatory conduct of Mahy, 99–100,
draft without proofs, 642, plan St.
Augustine council to sell pub. prop-
erty, 279, Walton's claim for com-
mission on disbursements, 792; drafts
on, in favor of Stanton for transports,
119–120; draws bill for Murray's claim
as solicitor, 725; enclosures due to,
sent by Worthington, 418; expects
early rept. re exam. archs., 903; ex-
tract from diary, 416 n.; extract from
let., 174; has funds for temp. govt.
of Fla., 567; informed re: agreement
for transf. of St. Augustine, 83, alleged
misconduct of U. S. atty. Steele, 863–
864, archs. stored in Customs House
(St. Augustine), 574-575, date of Du-
Wal's return to Fla., 583, DuVal's re-
turn to Fla., 649, proposed removal
of terr. capital, 907, results of poll
taken for recomils, of cands. to legis.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1095
council, 803–804; informs Jackson re
order for release of Span. officer, 368;
instra. by, re: appt. local officials from
among inhabs., 57–58, Forbes' mission
to Cuba, 11–12, 13, occup. of Fla., 13–
16, prevent. illegal cut. of timber, 669,
restricted powers of judges under 1821
act, 262-263, U. S. claims to cannon
in surrendered forts, 23–24, vouchers
for expenditures, 774; instra. ment. to:
Bird via St. Augustine, 101, Jackson,
19, 33, 230, Reynolds and Alvarez,
729, Walton to release Williers and
Guillemard, 403; Jackson: explains
reason for seizure of E. Fla. archs.,
335–343, requests his corresp. with
Fromentin be laid before Cong., 350–
351, requests settle. of accts. as govr.,
351; letters ment. to: Atty. Genl., 492,
Brackenridge, 647, DuVal, 470, 534,
550,556, 599–600, 682–683, Forbes, 33,
Fromentin, 173, 174, 260, Gould, 588,
Hamilton, 678, Jackson, 28, 30, 33,
70, 91, 135, 231, 834, 335, W. Smith,
592, 769, Span. minister, 260, 834,
Walton, 368, 403, 404, Worthington,
381, 500; lets. re accts. to be addressed
to, 837; letters to: Bird, 100-101, Du-
Val, 510, 560, 563, 669, Forbes, 11–
12, Fromentin, 262—263, Hamilton,
498, Jackson, 13–16,23–24, 50–52, 57–
58,99–100,172–173,260–262,327,367–
368, Pres., 623, Reynolds and Alvarez,
657, Rodman, 657, W. Smith, 635,
Walton, 369, Worthington, 279, 368–
369; letters to, from: Alba (Alva) and
Parmantier, 803—804, anon., 460–463,
542, Atty. Genl., 492, Bell, 124–125,
132–133, 169, 175—176, 344–346, Bel-
lamy,476, Brackenridge, 505–506,647–
648, 739, 860–862, Butler, 60–61, 83,
112–113, 116, DuVal., 284–285, 300,
470–471, 478–479, 489–491, 534–538,
583, 599–600, 649, 652–653, 675, 682–
683, 687–688, 726, 727, 731–732, 751,
847-849, 907, 979–980, Fitzgerald and
Co., 742, 920, Forbes, 64–65, 93–95,
117–119, 136, 171, 271, 370, 511, Fro-
mentin, 173–175, 184–189, Fry, 478,
Garnier, 573, Gould, 530–531, 585,
Grand-Pré, 810–811, 863–864, Hamil-
ton, 459–460, 483–484, 501, 580–582,
964—967, Hernandez, 604, 645–646,
648–649, Jackson, 28–29, 30–31, 36–38,
38–40, 41–42, 119, 137–154, 231—237,
334–344, 364, land commrs (W. Fla.
dist.), 772, 785, 846–847, 982–983, Mc-
Lean, 632–633, Metcalfe, 582, Mur-
ray, 725, Myers, 583–584, Pres., 47–
48, “Resid. Inhabs., E. Fla.,” 539–
541, Reynolds, 755–756, 758–759, Rey-
nolds and Alvarez, 729–731, 745–746,
903–904, Rodman, 300–301, 404–405,
485–487, 574–575, Scott, 912, Sebree,
676–677, Sec. War, 3, 80, Shannon,
493–495, J. L. Smith, 554–556, 592,
W. Smith, 417,617–618,666–667,735–
736, Steele, 447–448, 692, 699–700,
787–788, 864–874, 910, 951–953, 967,
972–979,981—982, Verplanck, 17, Walk-
er, 4–5, Walton, 265, 292-293, 403–
404, 456–457, 499, 560-563, 599, 663–
664,665–666,843–844, Ware and Over-
ton, 484-485, 516, 552–553, White,
516–517, Williams, 910–912, Worth-
ington, 180, 192–193, 247–248, 272,
301-302, 329–330, 333–334, 353–354,
374–375, 379, 381–383, 400, 418–419,
431–432, 437-439, 500, 506–507, 592–
594; ment., 443,475, 661, 777; officials
appd. for Fla. prepared to estab., U.
S. laws, 57; opinion re violation of
rights of Callava, 261; orders: DuVal
to return to Fla., 563, Forbes fund.
acct, as rec. of E. Fla. archives, 333,
release of Span. officers, 369; queries
to, re: amending comms. for officials
in Fla., 47–48, Indian affairs in Fla.,
582, law regul. appts. to legis. council,
417, list of property in W. Fla. dist.,
772, slave acts, 405, status of certain
slaves, 405; recomas. laid before: as
terr. secy., 44 n., as U. S. marshal,
591 n., Beers as p.m., 4–5, DuVal as
judge, 3, 43 n., Hunter as land commr.,
846, Rodman as coll. customs, 17,
Sebree as U. S. marshal, 591 n., Steele
as U. S. atty., 590 n., Walton as terr.
secy., 4–5; rept. by, re prog. of land
commrs., 623; reports to, re: admin. E.
Fla., 132–133, affairs in E. Fla., 247–
248,329–330,333–334,381–383, affairs
in W. Fla., 292–293, begin. of Bell’s
admin. as act. govr. E. Fla., 124-125,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1096
I N DE X
demand of land commrs. to retain
land papers, 729–731, depreds. on pub.
timber, 699–701, exam. archs. in E.
Fla.,903, initiation, progress, and com-
pletion of Span. evacu. of St. Augus-
tine and E. Fla., 60–63, 83, 112–114,
115–116, naturalization, 431–433,
occup. Fla., 112–113, 115–116, 158,
159, 162, seizure of E. Fla. archs.,
345–346, terr. affairs, 265, 560–563,
663–664, 665–666, 682–683, 687–688,
timber depreds., 583-584, transfer and
occup. of the Floridas (Jackson), 137–
154; requests: advice from Jackson re
form of govt. in Fla., 172, eligible site
for port of entry, 476, explan. from
Jackson re Callava affair, 261–262,
335, reason for forcible seizure of
archs., 327, settle of accts. of temp.
govt. in Fla., 437; sends: Blair's comm.
as judge,954 n., Brackenridge's comm.
as judge, 955 n., comm. as U. S. mar-
shal to Sebree, 676, comm. to Walton,
456, Hanson's comm. as U. S. mar-
shal, 957 n., Jackson corresp. to Pres.,
232, 260, laws U. S. to Smith, 592,
lets. from Span. minister re seizure
archs., to Jackson, 327, list of laws
re estab. of Orleans and La. terrs. to
Jackson, 172–173, Murray's comm.,
958 n., Sebree's comm. to Bracken-
ridge, 647, Smith's comm. as judge,
955 n., to Jackson copy of let. to Fro-
mentin, 260, to Jackson copy of let.
to Walton, 368, vols. of U. S. laws to
DuVal, 478, Wright's comm., 956 n.;
signs comms., 9, 11, 19, 43, 44, 45,
46, 50, 413, 414, 417, 423, 429, 430,
451, 470, 590, 591, 640, 641, 656, 680,
712, 806, 809, 850, 918, 943, 954, 955,
956, 957, 958; states no lets. recd.
from J. L. Smith, 592; to receive: act
legis. council, 599, certif. of White's
appt., 595, criticism of admin. of Fla.,
539–541, decree forbid. imprison. for
debt, 400, expense accts. of U. S. mar-
shal, 870, Garnier's accts., 574, Gould's
acct. for print. acts legis. council, 699,
Hanham's acct. and vouchers for ex-
penses as sheriff and jailor, 726, 727,
Jackson-Fromentin corresp., 275, list
of papers re civil-milit. dispute, 249,
list of passengers from foreign states
enter. St. Augustine, 404, memorial
by Bellamy, 476, newspaper art., 542,
papers re archs., 301, 333, 365, papers
re fin. crisis in St. Augustine, 301, pe-
tition, 477, register of officers, 353, St.
Augustine newspapers, 136,585, Wal-
ton's accts., 843, 844, Worthington's
accts., 879; urged to pay Bell for serv-
ices as act govr., 303; visit to Bos-
ton, 213; Worthington draws bill on,
334.
Secretary of the Treasury, Crawford, ap-
proves appt. Ayres as inspect. cus-
toms, Key West, 615; declines to act
on foreign vessels in St. Johns r., 29–
30; encls. papers re Fla. reef, 411; ex-
plains need of revenue official at Key
West, 728; fVds. draft to Walton, 671;
inform. not sufficient for Pres. to estab.
ports of delivery, 436; instrs. to: Clark
to fund. inform. re need for naming
ports of delivery, 436, Lewis to open
Pensacola customs house, 199 n.; let.
ment. to Scott, 693; letters to: Clark,
29–30, 436–437, Newton, 411, Rod-
man, 669–670, Yancey, 615, 715–716,
728; letters to, from: Ayers, 852, Clark,
24, coll. customs, Pensacola, 282-284,
Hamilton and Floyd, 722, Porter, 707–
708, Scott, 693, Sec. Navy, 372, 451–
452, W. S. Smith, 198–200, Steele, 701,
Stevens, 794–795, Yancey, 723–724;
memorial to, for confirm. of titles of
St. Augustine lot-holders, 759–762;
ment., 383, 735; orders: early return
of Yancey to Key West, 715–716,
revenue officers to prevent illegal cut.
of timber, 669, strict inspect. com-
merce at Key West, 716; private let.
ment. to, 946, 947; query by, re coas-
tal town betw. St. Marys r. and Cape
Fla., 30; recomds. two lighthouses for
Fla. reef, 411; rept. to, re alleged vio-
lation of timber act, 794-795; requested
to: foºd. Ware's comm. and related
docs. to Pensacola, 455, release cargo
of timber at Amelia Island, 451–452;
to issue order to transfer pub. docs.,
E. Fla., to land commrs., 722; to lay
testimony reland claims before Cong.
for approval, 427; to order revenue
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1097
cutter placed in St. Johns r. to sup-
press illegal export. of timber, 873;
urged to instruct revenue cutter to
aid in enforc. act against cut. timber,
373; warned of foreign cargoes landed
in E. Fla., 24.
Secretary of War, Calhoun, advised of
dec. of Pres. to use troops to prevent
export of timber,373; advises: advertis.
for provisions at New Orleans, Charles-
ton, and St. Augustine, 939, DuVal
re intention to locate Indians in cen-
tral place, 488, economy in Indian
admin., 519, no adding to St. Augus-
tine garrison, 63, no change in Span.
place names, 63; appoints: Bell temp.
Indian agt., 220, 222–223, 278, com-
mrs. to hold treaty with Indians, 659,
Pelham subagt. of Indian affairs, 264,
Worthington supt. Indian affairs, 277;
approves: Bell's repairs of fort and
pub. blags. at St. Augustine, 164,
Burch's view re Pensacola-Ft. Mit-
chell rd., 924, delay in moving In-
dians to reserv., 939, DuVal's plan
for treaty conf. with Seminoles, 518,
Jackson's views re futility of Indian
treaties, 278, employt. of Dexter as
temp. subagt., 721, estab. milit. post
at Tampa Bay, 807, open. St. Augus-
tine-Pensacolard., 519, Pelham's leave
of absence, 603, Seminole visit to
Washington, 904 n., use of expresses,
224 n., use of troops to open rd., 509,
607, 628–629, Walton's instrs. to
Humphreys, 654, Walton's measures
re Indians, 577 n., 626; assures Indian
commrs. of milit. guard, 713; believes:
Cong. will author. and approp. funds
needed for troops in open. rd., 628–
629, Pres. should assume direct. Fla.
affairs, 256–257, Seminoles should be
joined to Creek nation, 533; Bell re-
comd. to, as Indian agt., 241; cannot
dispose of city property in opinion of
mayor, 588; comm. to Bell as temp.
Indian agt., 222–223; corresp. with:
DuVal sent to Sec. War. 547, Morris
sent to DuVal, 488, Pelham sent to
Eustis, 497, 498; desires rept. re Pensa-
cola fortifs., 808; Dexter-Wanton let.
sent to, 243; disapproves: appt. of
Dexter, 697, DuVal's claims for full
Indian supt. salary,925–926, extra pay
to Walton as act. supt. Indians, 691,
unauthd. actions of Dexter and Wan-
ton, 278-279; DuVal's explan. to, re
expenses in Indian manag., 732–734;
explains: appt. Humpherys instead of
Bell as Indian agt., 450, diff. betw.
Fla. Terr. and others re salary of In-
dian supt., 689–692, Indian policy,
508–509, status of Pénières in Fla.,
165, temp. inability to move Semi-
noles west, 712; various laws regul.
Indian affairs, 512-513; expresses wish
for DuVal to appear in person at In-
dian conf., 558; informed re Indian
uneasiness, 471-472; informs Jackson
Span. agt. has arrived at St. Augus-
tine with instrs., 81; instre. by, to: Bell
as Indian agt., 220–222, Bell re return
of fug. slaves, 220, DuVal re author.
and duties as supt. Indian affairs, 452–
455, DuVal to direct treaty conf. be
held, 558, Gadsden and Segui re In-
dian treaty negots., 659–661, Gaines
ment., 70, Jackson re Indian affairs,
25–27, Jackson re occup. Fla., 19–20,
Pelham to return to Fla. as soon as
health permits, 603 n., Pénières, 26-
27; instrs. discussed re occup. St.
Augustine, 22; instrs. reassigning pub.
blågs. to civil author. interpd. by
Clinch, 551; issue of rqs. to be laid
before, 838; leaves choice of time for
Seminole removal to DuVal, 939; let-
ters ment. to: Adjt. Genl., 384, Bell,
519, Clinch, 551, DuVal, 488, 491, 508,
518, 533, 548, 557, 558, 559, 597, 601,
732, 908, 922, 925, 926, 939, 964, Eus-
tis, 306, 307, 549, Hernandez, 642,
Humphreys, 922, Jackson, 31, 32, 33,
41, 58, 70, 81, 109, Pelham, 497, Pres.,
782, Walton, 562, 576, 607, 608, 626,
670, Worthington, 280; letters to: Bell,
164-165, 219–222, 450, Butler, 63,
Clinch, 488–489, Cook et al., 820–821,
DuVal, 452–455, 488, 508—509, 518–
519, 689–691, 697, 721, 774–775, 925–
927, 939–940, Eustis, 285–286, 512–
513, Gadsden, 712–713, 779, 783–784,
817–818, Gadsden and Sequi, 659–661,
Hernandez, 628–629, 651–652, Hum-
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1098
I N DE X
phreys, 509–510,532–533, Jackson, 19–
20, 25–26, 40–41, 81,278-279, Pelham,
264, 474–475, Pénières, 26–27, Pres.,
224, 455, 778–779, Sec. State, 3, 80,
Walton, 554,654–655,691–692, Worth-
ington, 263—264; letters to, from: Adjt.
Genl., 384–385, Allen, 917–918, Bell,
46–47, 125–127, 169–171, 197,269–271,
409–410, Butler, 48–49, 115, Chief
Engr., 839–840; DuVal, 4, 471–473,
491–492, 501-502, 533–534, 732–734,
744–745, 746—747, 787, 832, 904–905,
908–909, 922–924, 964, Eustis, 243–
244, 306–307, 363–364, 495–496, 547,
Gadsden, 694–696, 752–754, 794, 795–
796, 802—803, 841–843, 850–851, 902,
905–907, 968–971, Hernandez, 642–
645, Jackson, 31–32, 58–59, 205–209,
210–213, 302–303, 719–720, Pres., 69–
70,208n.,782–783, Sec. Navy,373, Wal-
ton, 556–560, 576–577, 597–598, 606–
607, 626–628,670–672, Ware,455–456,
Worthington, 181, 249–250, 280, 294,
327–329; ment., 551; notifies DuVal
re illegal actions of licensed and unli-
censed traders, 926–927; orders: Clinch
to transfer pub. blags. to civil author.,
493, conf. with Indians postponed,
554, 576, economy in Indian expenses,
294 n., evacu. of Ft. Gadsden, 109,
guard on revenue cutter to enforce act
against cut. timber in Fla., 372, milit.
and civil powers to agree on distrib.
pub. blags. in Pensacola, 488–489,
open. of St. Marys r.-St. Augustine
rd., 651–652, pub. blogs. in St. Augus-
tine turned over to civil govt., 331,
troops to board revenue cutter, 374,
troops to occupy Tampa Bay, 817;
power to make distrib. of pub. bligs.,
182; prepares instrs. re Seminoles, 57;
receives estimates for Pensacola-St.
Augustine rq., 606–607; recommends:
appt. of Gadsden and Ripley to run
lines Seminole reserv., 778, 779, Bell
as substitute for DuVal at proposed
Indian conf., 558, DuVal as U. S.
commr. at Seminole treaty conf., 518,
DuVal as judge, 3, estab. milit. post
at Tampa Bay, 778, fix. lines of bound.
reserv. prior to ratif. of treaty, 778,
use of troops to open St. Augustine-
Pensacola rd., 519; rept. re author. of
milit. comma. in Fla. sent to Cong.,
402; repts. to, re: affairs of E. Fla.,
169–171,327–329, begin. Bell's admin.
in E. Fla., 125-127, defenses of Pensa-
cola, 839–840, exec. orders for distrib.
pub. blags. betw. civil and milit.
power, 306–307, illegal cutting of tim-
ber, 363, Indian affairs, 409–410, 490–
491, 495–497, 501-505, 533, 556–560,
597–598, 670–671, 922–923, negot. of
Seminole treaty, 747–751, occup. E.
Fla., 115, Seminole bound., 968–971,
Span. evacu. of St. Augustine and E.
Fla., 115, survey bound. of Seminole
reserv., 905–907; requests instrs. from
Pres. re orders to Bell, 224; sends:
Eustis laws re Indian admin., 513, ex-
tract of let. to DuVal, 533, funds to
DuVal for Indian expenses, 597, lets.
re civil-milit. conflict in St. Augustine
to Pres., 224, relevant docs. to DuVal
re Indian suptcy.,452, Seminole treaty
to Pres., 778, 779, Worthington reguls.
re Indian affairs, 263; signs comm.,
223; suggests: Bell as alternate commr.
at Seminole treaty conf., 518, only
remedy for slave owners for return of
slaves from Indians is appeal to Cong.,
821; unable to: issue direct orders re
distrib. of pub. blógs., 488, 489, send
DuVal docs. re Indian supts. and agts.,
509; word awaited re use of pub. blogs.
by civil and milit. officials, 195, 196.
Segee, Peter, signer, 478.
Segui, B., signer, 858.
Segui (Seguy), Benito, signer, 704, 761.
Segui (Sigui), Bernardo, accepts appt.
as Indian commr., 659 n.; alderman,
St. Augustine, 358; appd. syndic, St.
Augustine, 120; grand juror, 961;
helps pay Bell's fine, 269 m.; member
legis. council: appd. and comma., 423,
declines appt., 449, 460, recomd., 407,
resigns, 423 n., tenure, 423; nativity,
358; petit juror, 799; signer, 367, 371,
448, 530, facing 702, 704, 985; signs
rept., 751; to requis. provisions for
Indian treaty negots., 660. See also
Gadsden, James, and Segui.
Segui, Bernardo, Sanchez, and Fatio,
encl. petition inhabs. St. Augustine
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1099
to Pres., 702; let. to Sec. State, 702.
Segui, Nicholas, signer, 818, 816.
Selby, James B., and Co., of Pensacola,
contracts with Burch for: the brig Vic-
tory, 835 n., the Mary, 916.
Seminary of Learning, land reserved for,
638.
Seminole Indians, appointments: agt.
recomii., 465, Dexter and Wanton as
agts., 245, Gadsden and Ripley to run
bound. of reserv. approved by Pres.,
782, 783, Richards as interp., 410;
apprehensions under U. S. rule, 170,
171; approx. number, 465, 968; arrive
at St. Augustine after U. S. occup.,
127; can cut Pensacola-St. Augustine
communic., 533–534; chiefs: arrive at
St. Marks for treaty conf., 597, confer
with DuVal, 922, DuVal's talks with,
503–504, promise delivery of murder-
ers at St. Marks, 503, promise peace
until agt. arrives, 578, visit Pensacola
to learn reason for cancel. treaty conf.,
597; claims: extent of, an object of
U. S., 465, to be ascertained, 27, to
soil, 465; complain of white settlers
near towns, 503; concentration of:
discussed, 410, plan to be pursued,
508, policy of govt., 548; Creeks:
allegedly mistreated by, 219, leave,
207, part of, 206, refuse to move to,
294, removal to, recoma., 533–534;
declare peaceful intent if allowed to
remain in Fla., 294; desire to remain in
Fla., 294; destitute state of, 219 n., 534
n., 842; Dexter ordered to gather facts
re, 681; Dexter and Wanton: authority
denied, 221, hold unauthd. conf., 205,
206, 209, unauthd. talk sent to Sec.
War, 278; discussion of measures to
be adopted re, 41; disposed to raise
cattle,841; fear of, impedes settle., 571;
frequent w. coast Fla., 796; hostility
of, 549; hunting season, 341; inability
of govt. to move to w. of Miss. r., 712;
in Apalachicola-Suwanee areas prefer
to remain, 695; in peninsula pleased
with plan of concentr. S. of Tampa
Bay, 695; Jackson: anxiety re non-
exec. of promise of land by, 501, 503,
copy of instrs. to subagt. awaited by,
58, instrs. sent to, 57, misinterprets
talk, 670, opinion re concentr., 719–
720, opposes perm. settlement in Fla.,
207–208, opposes treaties with, 278,
recomas. removal of, 278, talk sent
to Sec. War, 278; loc. of, 206; ment.,
57, 222; murders by, 501, 503; near
Cant. Brooke friendly, 842; no formal
peace with (1821), 25; origin, 750;
papers cited re rels. with Spain, 328
n.; peaceful attitude, 673; plan of
removal to Ga. fails, 508; present in
St. Augustine, 194; rations for: con-
tracts discussed, 922, 923, cost of
corn, 747, discussed, 747, left for
DuVal to arrange, 939, points of issue,
940 n.; refuse to yield fug. slaves, 857;
removal w. of Miss. r., recoma., 534;
reservation: area little known, 778,
bound. discussed, 752–754, bound.
not completed, 922, chiefs object to
mark. lines, 795, citations to sources
re removal to, 964 n., delay in removal
approved, 939, descrip. of land in,
968–969, extend. n. bound. recoma.,
841–842, loc. of, 748–749, mark.
bounds. discussed, 778, mark. in
Middle Dist. delayed, 970, n. bound.
described, 905, n. line may be moved
farther n., 783, n. line to be left open,
778, proposed by Jackson, opposed,
748, removal to, discussed, 922–923,
rept. re survey bound., 905–907, sur-
vey bound. desired, 794, troops
needed at St. Marks until removal to,
928, survey and run. bound. to pro-
ceed, 818, w. bound. marked, 850, w.
bound. to be extended, 850; rifles
required as presents for, 713; trade
with Cuban fishermen, 696; treaty
with: date fixed for negots., 694,
discussed, 970–971, div. among, re
terms, 695–696, failure to attend, 294,
409, favorably disposed for, 244-245,
meet. place discussed, 518–519, plan
approved, 518, plans ordered for, 509,
postponed, 554, 576, procl. ment. re,
280, proposed, 277, ratified by Senate,
817, to be held, 263, to be held at St.
Marks, 547, uneasiness re, 918–919,
urged by inhabs. E. Fla., 571-572;
wnder 1819 treaty: query by, re status,
119, visit of deleg. to confer with Cop-
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1100
I N DE X
pinger re rights, 212; views re future
residence, 670, 672–673; visit to Wash-
ington: approved, 939, by chiefs, 964,
chiefs apply for permit for, 904, 922,
chiefs rec. permit for, 904 n., peaceful
faction desires, 211; war against U.S.,
210; white inhabs. fear attack by, 802;
will resist removal, 294. See also
Creek Indians; Indians.
Seminole Indian treaty (1823), dis-
cussed, 747–751.
Seminole war of 1818, ment., 519.
Sena (Senac 7), Edoin, sigher, 289.
Senac, Edouard, signer, 311.
Senac, Pedro (Pierre), grand juror, 613
n., 896; petit juror, 612; signer, 310,
315.
Serbes (Sorbes), J., signer, 625.
Serchet, Beltran, signer, 289.
Serra, Celestino, signer, 310, 315.
Serra, Edouard, signer, 315.
Serra, Wacino, signer, 310, 315.
Serren, Bartholome Careno y, signer,
704.
Sessions, William, signer, 323.
Setarky, a Seminole chief, settle. of,
841; unfriendly, 841.
Setarky, Indian village, in rel. to Semi-
nole reserv. bound., 905.
Seton, Charles, appd. temp. inspec. of
customs, Amelia Island, 52 n.; grand
juror, 822,933; signer, 814, 819; signs
for Rodman, 816; takes naturaliz.
oath, 434.
Sevier, Alexander, of Tenn., solicits post
of coll. customs, St. Augustine, 52 n.
Sevier, —, recomd. as clk. dist. ct., E.
Fla., 91.
Seymour, Samuel James, signer, 448,
530.
Shackelford (Shackleford), Nathan,
appd. j. p., Pensacola, 131 n.; grand
juror, 613 n.; recomas. Davison as
U. S. marshal, 591 n.; signer, 318.
Shannon, David, appa.: justice peace
and quorum, Pensacola, 132, presid.
judge, Escambia Co., 131 n., 480;
art. ment. by, re admin. justice,
Escambia Co., 493 n.; cand. for land
commr., 429 n.; date of rec. of comm.,
493; death of, 495 n.; discusses oper.
of Escambia Co. ct. under Jackson's
ordin., 493–494; encls. to Pres.
recomd. of Brackenridge as judge,
W. Fla., 317; gives oath of office to:
Garnier, 663 n., Miller, 227; illness of,
574; let. ment. to Jackson, 280;
letters to: Jackson, 280–282, Pres.,
317, Sec. State, 493–495; note re, 132;
pay: amt. allowed, 495, 573, 574, 618,
661, authd., 574, informed re, 495 m.,
query by, re, 281–282; recomas. of,
132 n.; rept. re jud. affairs, Escambia
Co., 280–281; signer, 183, 288, 320,
480; signs memorial justices Escambia
Co. ct. for added compens., 493;
tenders resig. to DuVal, 494.
Shannondale Springs (Va), Pres. at, 172,
232.
Shark, U. S. schooner, 362; cruise to
Thompson's Island (Key West), 385.
Sharp, Cunningham, signer, 322.
Shearman, Edward, and Williamson,
case against, by U. S., 66 n.
Shell Bank, North River, petit jurors
from, 798.
Shells Swamp, petit jurors from, 935.
Sheriffs, appt. of, 134, 177; St. Johns
Co., unable to give bond, 540.
Ship Island, Ramage meets Kearney at,
259.
Ship yards, grand jurors from, 822.
Shomo, Capt. Joseph, recomâ. as U. S.
marshal, 591 n.
Shorter, Eli S., recomds. Jackson as
survn. pub. lands, 943 n.
Shortis, John H., takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Sibley, Del Solomon, of Mich. Terr.,
recomas.: Doty as terr. secy., 44 n.,
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Sickels, E. C., signer, 449.
Sierra, Eugenio Antonio, signer, 290,
310, 315.
Sierra, Joseph (José), petit juror, 613 n.,
614 n.; signer, 290, 309, 314, 625.
Sikes (Sakes; Sykes), James, petit juror,
611, 613 n.; signer, 288,625.
Silva, Pedro, witness, 614 n.
Simmons, Micajah, signer, 478.
Simmons, Dr. William H., appointed:
commr. to recomd. site terr. govt.,
854 n., member legis. council, 640–641,
913 n., qmg., second brigade militia,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1101
721; declines appt. to bd. of health,
359; demands personal satisf. from
Rodman for Hamilton, 710; journal
publd., 855 n.; nativity, 359; recoma.
as: agt. to admin. E. Fla. archs., 965,
land commr. (E. Fla. dist.), 958 n.,
member legis. council, 407, 616, 913
n.; recomas. Cox for legis. council,
913 n.; resigns from legis. council,
913 n.; signer, 530, 761, 985; travels
overland from St. Augustine to St.
Marks, 855 n.
Simms, William Douglass, death of, 531;
note re, 531; recoma. as council mem-
ber, 490.
Simon, Francisco, signer, 310, 315.
Simon, Maturin (Maturen), petit juror,
613 n.; sells liquor to Indians, 673;
signer, 309, 314, 625; suit against, as
Indian trader, 793; suit against Scott,
740; trial proposed for violation of
Indian trade law, 670, 673–674.
Simon v. Scott, on docket, 740.
Simonton (Syminton), John W., buys
island of Key West, 352 n., 462; claim
to Key West, 462; claim to Key West
confirmed by land commrs., 352 n.;
date of settle. at Key West, 352 n.;
desires to erect fortif. on Key West,
353; in Washington, 824; memo re
importance of Key West, 411–412;
memorial to Cong. to estab. port of
entry at Key West, 352; note re, 352;
sells interest in Key West, 386 n.; suit
pending against Geddes re purch. of
Key West, 462; wins suit against
Geddes re Key West, 382 n.
Simpson, Andrew P., grand juror, 614 n.,
790, 888; petit juror, 614 n.
Simpson, John, appd. j. p., Pensacola,
132; grand juror, 896; signer, 321.
Simpson, S. P., signer, 893.
Singleton, Joseph, witness, 937 n.
Sintas, Bernardo, signer, 814, 816, 819.
Six Mile Creek, grand jurors from, 822,
934; petit jurors from, 800, 823, 935.
Sizemore's Ferry, on Ala. r., 765.
Skinner, Thomas A., signer, 289; wit-
ness, 614 n.
Slaughter, Lt. Lee, remains at Mont-
pelier with detach., 92.
Slaves, among Indians: estimated popul.,
465, fug., 857, no prov. in Seminole
treaty or in law for return, 820–821,
only remedy for return is appeal to
Cong., 821, protected by Fla. Indians,
762; confined in port at St. Augustine,
179; engage in fish. and cut. timber,
744; fortify Tampa Bay, 167 n., fugi-
tive: armed, 744, believed with Span.
troops, 118, case of, from Ga., 118,
discussed, 126, in Cape Fla., 763, in
Fla. Keys and the Bahamas, 745, 763,
Indians urged to return, to St. Marks,
504, on Pine Island, 744, 745, status
of, from Ga. in St. Augustine, 136, to
be brought in, 681, to be surrendered
by Seminoles, 220, travel from Tampa
Bay to Fla. Keys and thence to
Bahamas, 745; illegal trade in: case of,
980, discussed, 740–743, laws re, mat-
ter of jud. decision, 301 n., plans to
import, before U. S. occup., 38, poss.
of Fla.. needed to stop, 34, prohib. of,
398, query as to interp. of laws re,
300–301, ships engaged in, to be
seized on Fla. coast, 39; illegal transp.
of negro, to W. Fla. discussed, 867–
869; in E. Fla., 295; land in Pensacola,
876–877; newspaper notices to owners
of, 179; petition for return to owners,
857–858; roster sent to Bell, of those
taken by Creeks from Seminoles, 221;
seized on board the Oleander, 179;
taken to Havana: difficulty re return to
U. S., 405, petition for return to
Pensacola, 324, query re return of,
405, query re status of, 405. See also
Negroes.
Slave trade, ment., 57; suppression by
Navy, 39 n.; under juris. of terr.
judge, 252,253,262—263.
Sloan, Rep. John, of Ohio, recomds.
Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Slopis (Lopez), Francisco, petit juror,
613 n.; signer, 315. See also Lopez,
Francisco.
Smith, Aaron, cargo of seized timber
ordered returned to, 451–452; con-
tracts with Brit. govt. for cedar tim-
ber, 376; employs Brannen to draw
cedar trees to boat land., 384; party
under, illegally cut timber along St.
For identical names, see indea note, p. 988



1102 I N DE X
Johns r., 378; reptă. cutting timber,
363; said to be from N. Y., 384.
Smith, Abraham, signer, 814, 816.
Smith, Alexander, petit juror, 614 n.;
signer, 323.
Smith, Coachworth, signer, 814.
Smith, C., signer, 816.
Smith, Daniel W., signer, 321.
Smith, Gen. Edmund Kirby, son of J. L.
Smith, 416 n.
Smith, Elihu, signer, 289.
Smith, Ezekiel, signer, 477.
Smith, J. Aallin (Allen 2), signer, 761.
Smith, Jacob, signer, 322.
Smith, James G., signer, 477, 814, 816.
Smith, John R., signer, 367.
Smith, Rep. John S., of Ky., recomds.
DuVal as govr., 372 n.
Smith, Jonas, applies for appt. as survn.
pub. lands, 943 n.
Smith, Judge Joseph L., absence of govr.
bars early oath of office, 554; acks.
receipt of comm., 955 n.; appd. and
comd. judge (E. Fla. dist.), 21 n.,
416–417, 554, 955–956; appts. Murray
act. U. S. atty., 682,806 n.; appraises
pub. lots, St. Augustine, 569; arrival
awaited in St. Augustine, 483; avows
perm. residence Fla., 554; assigns issu-
ance of processes to sheriffs, 666; be-
gins first sess. sup. ct. (E. Fla. dist.),
677; cites lets. sent to Sec. State, 592;
comm. as judge sent to, 955 n.; date
of arrival at post, 540, 554; defends in-
tegrity of Hamilton, 716–717; exams.
and allows compens. grand and petit
jurors, 823, 935, 963; father of E. K.
Smith, 416 n.; Hamilton makes affid.
before, 709, 710; illness of, 592; law
1822 requires oath of office before
govr., 554; letters ment. to: DuVal,
555, Sec. State, 554, 592; letters to:
Pres., 716–717, Sec. State, 554–556,
592; non-arrival of, 486; non-voter,
717; note re, 416; opinion re Gomez,
717; recs. census returns Ala., Wheat-
on's Repts., and U. S. laws, 592;
recoma. as govr., 416 n., 469 n.;
recomas.: amending law re judges'
oaths, 555, Copp as U. S. atty., 806 n.,
Hanham as U. S. marshal, 639 n.;
salary, 629; tenure, 416, 955; unable
to: hold court, 554–555, take oath of
office, 540; uses room in govt. house
for court, 687.
Smith, Josiah, helps pay Bell's fine,
269 n.
Smith, Jurdan (Jourdan), petit juror,
937.
Smith, L., clk. State Dept., acts for
Maury, 728.
Smith, Robert W., witness, 61.4 n.
Smith, Rep. Samuel, of Md., recomds.
Worthington for office, 35 n.
Smith, Waters, chmn. meet. of inhabs.,
St. Augustine, 573; complaint re
diminished duties, 666–667; letters
ment. to: Eustis, 589, Maury, 743,
782, Sec. State, 635, 735; letters to:
Eustis, 587–589, Maury, 769–770,
792, 818, Sec. State, 617–618, 666–
667, 735–786; letters to, from: Eustis,
587, 589, Maury, 743–744, 782, 804,
Sec. State, 635; mayor of St. Augustine:
answers query by Eustis, 587–589,
defends action of city author. in
taking over dragoon barracks, 587–
589, disputes right of War Dept. to
take over city property, 588, let re
pub. blógs. sent to QMG, 585, no
longer mayor, 818, query to, re
author. of city to dispose of pub.
blågs., 587, requests funds to aid
corp. of St. Augustine, 617; queries
re: duties as U. S. marshal, 666–667,
includ. conting. expenses of ct. in
acct., 667, includ. expenses of pris-
oners in acct., 667, reason for non-
payt. St. Augustine corp. debts, 735;
St. Augustine claims: acks. recpt. of
draft in payt. of, 818, explains diffi-
culty in supply. vouchers re 769–
770, informed claims to be settled,
782, requests check on U. S. bank,
Charleston, in payt. of, 792, to pay
indiv, creditors, 818, Treas. draft
fwd. to, re, 804; signer, 568; signs
memorial for inhabs., 573; U. S.
marshal: appd. and commd., 639–
640, depos. sworn before, by Gomez,
facing 702, recomd. as, 500, 529–530,
signs state. re service of grand and
petit jurors, 801, 823, 935, 963,
tenure, 639.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N D E X
1103
Smith, Col. William, father of W. S.
Smith, aide-de-camp to Washing-
ton, 56.
Smith, Sen. William, of S. C., let. to
Sec. State, 417; query re interp. of
law regul. appts. to legis. council, 417.
Smith, W., agt. of F. Gué, 961.
Smith, William Steuben, appd. naval
officer, 52, 56, 162, 198 m.; gives
oath to A. Scott, Jr., as customs
inspector, 198; let. to Sec. Treas.,
198–200; recomás.: purch, of row-
boat, 199, use of revenue cutter, 199;
rel. of John Adams, 56.
Smith, –, passenger on Enterprise, 631.
Smith, –, survr. of customs, 499.
Smugglers and smuggling, by Creeks
anticipated, 29; difficult to suppress,
353, 707; ment., 57, 523; poss. of
Fla.. needed to combat, 34; source
and resort of, 387.
Smyrna, see Old Smyrna.
Snell, James W., signer, 322.
Snowden, G. A., signer, 323.
Snowden, James, signer, 292.
Snowden, John, signer, 292.
Soher, S., signer, 288.
Sojar, Thomas, signer, 287.
Solana (Solano), Bartolome (Bartome),
grand juror, 963 n.; signer, facing
702, 704, 858.
Solana (Solano),
juror, 963.
Solana, Felipe, signer, 372, 762.
Solana, Manuel, signer, 762.
Solana, Maria, signer, 762.
Solana (Solano), Mateo (Matteo; Mat-
thew), appa. police officer, St. Au-
gustine, 120; grand juror, 960; signer,
371.
Solano, Mateo C., signer, 449, 764.
Solomon, Lewis, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Sorbes, J., signer, 309, 314.
Sotelo, Maria, signer, 762.
Sougell, Miguel, signer, 310, 315.
South America, independence ackd.,
400.
Southard, Samuel L., see Secretary of
the Navy.
South Carolina, birthplace of: Beckley,
357, du Bose, 358, 359, Gibson, 300,
Charles W., petit
Jackson, 355, McGilvray, 359, 361,
Simmons, 359; Cong. deleg. recomas.:
McKibbin as U. S. atty. (E. Fla.
dist.), 414 n., Simmons as land
commr., 958 n.; Geddes former govr.
of, 382–383; Jenkins appd. from,
52; ment., 461; slaves escape to Fla.,
762.
Southern Division, Butler appd. Adj.
Genl. of, 34.
Spain, act (text) enablg. Pres. to receive
Fla. from, 5–8; all terr. ceded by, to
be one terr., 389–390; archives: al-
leged evasions of officials re transfer
to U. S., 338–339, auths. to be con-
sulted re disposal of, 345, mode of
keeping, 731, not relevant to inhabs.
discussed, 649; Baker former consul
in, 56; cession of Fla. ment., 313;
char. of rule in: Louisiana, 621, the
Floridas, 621; const. of: adopted after
treaty of 1819, 168, discussed, 189,
framed by the Cortes, 250, provides
jury trial in criminal cases, 167;
consul invites Span. inhabs. to Cuba,
708; did not own Cath. Church prop-
erty in St. Augustine, 459; div. of
Fla. under, 55, 522; Entralgo native
of, 358; king of: orders reland grants
needed by land commrs., 785, procl.
discussed re rights of Brit. subjects to
dispose of Fla. land claims, 399–400,
ratif. of 1819 treaty ment., 250, re-
served to crown 1500 varas around
each town, 819, right to grant lands
to church discussed, 492; land grants:
classes of, 826–827, effect of cession
of Fla. on Brit., discussed, 825, for
milit. service, 825, 826, petition for
confirm. of, 296–298, settled prior to
cession of Fla. discussed, 290–292;
laws: distinct from those of U.S., 260,
known by White, 718, re jury trial
not extended to colonies, 167–168;
ment., 4, 9, 10, 40, 59, 114, 139, 141,
142, 150, 176, 194, 231, 238, 253;
pattern of rule in E. Fla. to be follow-
ed by Worthington, 99; piracy case
can be tried in Fla. only by laws of,
292–293; queries re: agreements with
Indians, 207, 456, applic. of new
const. to Fla., 250, 251, copy of
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1104 I N DE X
sent from N. Y., 63, surplus discussed,
103 m.; removal to Cuba: agree. re
transp., 122-123, awaited, 92, before
U. S. troops arrive, 14, date of, 107,
118, 125, discussed, 55, 59, 69–70,
escort near St. Augustine, 49, from E.
Fla., 19–20, 22–24, 28, 29–35, 46–47,
48–49, 59–65, 66–70, 72–73, 79–81,
83–84, 85–88,95–97, 99–100, 102–103,
106, 107–109, 110–113, 114–116, 124–
125, 341, from St. Augustine, 112, in
U. S. ships, 14, 22, 30, payt. for
transp., 119–120, plan approved by
Callava, 138, plan discussed, 67, 75,
86–87, 103, Stanton appd. to arrange,
144, transport assured, 79, transport
ment., 140.
Spark, U. S. brig, cannot enter St.
Johns r., 407; on cruise s. of Cuba,
776; ordered to St. Johns r., 377–378.
Sparkman, Levi, signer, 477.
Sparkman (Spaman), William, petit
juror, 823.
Spells Swamp, grand juror from, 933.
Spence, Dr. John S., of Md., recomds.
Allen as land commr., 917.
Spring Garden, Indian settle., 464.
Squares and public places (St. Augus-
tine), recomd. as town common, 204.
Stair, James B., signer, 287.
Stamper, George W., of Va., solicits
post of coll. of customs, St. Augustine,
52 n.
Standly, Shadrack, signer, 478.
Stanton (Staunton), Maj. Henry, appd.
to inventory Span. ordnance, 147;
confers with Callava resigning inven-
tories, 149; did not supply Thornton
with sched. pub. property, Pensacola,
984; fails to get Callava signature to
inventories, 148–149; instrs. to, dis-
cussed, 159; let. to Jackson, 155–156;
ordered to confer with Callava re
signing inventories, 159; order ment.
to, re rept on pub. bligs., 155; receipt
of, 120; removal of Span. troops to
Havana: appd. to arrange, 144,
charged with, 122–123, drafts in favor
of, to pay for, 119–120, procures
transport and rations for, 158–159,
query by, re food for, 39–40, without
funds for, 87; reports re: Callava's
treaty, 455, copy of treaty with
Brit., 455, interpret. of classes of
land grants, 825–827; removal of
troops: by U. S., 6, 14, discussed,
14, 37; Reyes native of, 358; royal
order: liquidates Brit. land claims,
572, ment. re treaty of 1783, 96, of
1813, ment., 949, re delivery of Fla.
discussed or ment., 13, 15, 33, 96,
re land grants discussed, 825–827;
Saavedra native of, 358; Segui native
of, 358; to pay for transp. of ordnance
if claimed, 53; treatment of Indians
in the Floridas, 733; treaty with: dis-
cussed, 18, ment., 735; treaty with
Brit. (1783): ment., 68, needed by
land commrs., 485.
Spanish Customs House, Pensacola,
duties collected at, until Fla. transf.,
to be retained, 139.
Spanish Governors, royal orders to, re
land grants, proposed to be left in
St. Augustine, 105.
Spanish grants, query re right of settlers
to move to, within Indian bound., 496.
Spanish guard house (St. Augustine),
part of custom house, 306.
Spanish inhabitants, alleged criticism of
DuVal by, 539; de facto citizens after
taking oath of alleg., 512; gradual
migration to Cuba, 295; held in high
esteem, 531, 532; made quick adjust.
to U. S. author., 508, 536, 645; many
leaving, 302, 329; no. of, 296; support
Hernandez for re-elec. as terr. deleg.,
716; unable to amalgam. with Ameri-
cans, 302.
Spanish Main, ships from ports of, pass
Fla. Keys, 388.
Spanish Minister, complaints ment. re
Jackson's policy in E. Fla., 368; lets.
discussed re seizure of archs., 327.
Spanish troops, alleged threats against
U. S. cits., 60; arrive in Pensacola
from St. Marks, 147; colored, to be
moved separately from white, 88;
effect of removal on St. Augustine,
136; ment., 144; no collision with,
expected, 78; occupy council chamber,
216; plan of evacu. of Barrancas by,
108; rations for: bought, 113, offer of
U. S. to provide, 73, question of, 103,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1105
refusal to sign inventories, 160, cond.
pub. blogs., W. Fla., 155–156, pub.
blågs. discussed, 153, Span. ordnance
discussed, 152–153; rept. to Jackson
re Callava's illness, 159; to attend
Jackson at Montpelier, 19; to arrange
transp. of troops to occupy W. Fla.,
14 n.
Staple, William, signer, 311, 315.
Starkweather, William, signer, 350, 367,
371.
Starr, James B., petit juror, 613 n.; wit-
ness, 614 n.
State Department, answer re complaints
of Span. minister delayed, 368; in
possess. of work contain. ordin. of
1754, 785.
Steele, E. P., petit juror, 613 n.; signer,
321.
Steele, Peter H., signer, 288.
Steele, William F., alleged author of
arts. in newspaper unfavor. to indiv.
persons, 860–861; argum. by, for
recording and publg., grand jury
presents., 875–876; attests list of
suits in dist. ct., 959; certif. of sig.
as atty. in terr., 897; charges against:
by Grand-Pré, and by grand jury,
810–811, by Williams, 910–912, case
against, by U. S., 66 n., complaints
against official conduct, 739–743,
embezzling, 952, grand jury present.
discussed, 872, incompet. as atty.,
911, intoxic., 878, mismanag., 911,
preferred at State Dept., 864, riotous
conduct, 812, 860–863, 871; claims
against, for unpaid bills, 911; com-
plains re Innerarity's actions, 692;
defense of: action re Lewis and Manuel
Williers, 975, affid. confirm. sobriety,
894–895, against charges of miscon-
duct, 864–874, 910, 951–953, 967,
972–979, 981–982, state. of foremen
of grand juries in support, 895; dis-
barment sought, 952,973 n.; discusses:
Barnett's affid., 869, depreds. on pub.
timber, 791, difficulty re prosec. of
timber thieves, 809, cond. in W. Fla.
on his arrival, 865, lack of jail in
Pensacola, 787–788, various affids.
and other docs., 869–871; explains
rels. with Hobby, 974; fined and im-
prisoned, 967; imprisoned on con-
tempt charge, 973, 979, 982; letters
ment. to: Scott, 740, Sec. Navy, 809,
Sec. State, 864, 910, 951, 967, 972,
981, Twitchell, 898, Wright, 899;
letters to: Scott, 742-743, Sec. Navy,
791–792, 809–810, Sec. State, 447–
448, 692, 699–700, 787–788, 864–874,
910, 951–953, 967, 972–979, 981–
982, Sec. Treas., 701; letters to, from:
Scott, 742, Twitchell, 898, Wright,
899; library seized by police, 911;
list of indicts. brought by, ment.,
911; list of suits entered by, 793;
motion to quash indicts., 894; moves
public. of grand jury present., 790;
opinion re Innerarity, 692; plan for
trial of Coulons brothers, 891; pres-
ence of slaves on Thomas Shields
explained to, 875–876; rel. to pro-
ceeds. against the Thomas Shields,
867–869; prosec. of: for alter. text of
grand jury indict., 898, 899, for
riotous conduct, 893, quashed, 893;
query by, author. of Navy Dept. re
preserv. of ship timber, 809–810;
rept. by, re depreds. on pub. timber,
699–701; rift with Brackenridge, 860–
862, 866–867, 869–871, 877, 967;
sends: grand jury present. to Sec.
State, 787, records and bill of charges,
448; solicits instrs. re depreds. on
pub. timber, 701; U. S. atty (W. Fla.
dist.): appa. and comma., 447 n.,
589–590, complains re lack of instrs.
and other docs. in office, 700, conduct
discussed, 870–871, criticises select.
grand juries, 865–866, declines to
prosecute Forsyth, 740,742,743, effort
to prosecute Grand-Pré and others,
810–811, in Fla. Terr. v. Coulons,
888, motion to discharge foreman of
grand jury discussed, 882, motion to
place grand jury presents. on ct.
records, 875, order of suspen., 977 n.,
recomd. as, 414 n., 590 n., signs bills
of indict., 888, 889, 890, sponsors
discussed, 867, tenure, 590, to prose-
cute Simon, 673–674, visits Washing-
ton to solicit appt. as, 590 n.; U. S.
v. Riley: answer to motion for dis-
charge, 878–882, conduct ment., 860,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
301867-.57–71



1106
I N DE X
Suarez, Peter, petit juror, 934; signer,
566.
Suarez, Tela N., signer, 288.
Suarez (Suarrice), Thomas (J.P.), petit
juror, 823, 934; signer, 566, 858.
Subagent of Indian affairs, appt. of, 25,
26, 28, 264; Dexter appd., 681; duties,
452; Pelham appd., 264; Pénières
appd., 28; salary, 655, 697.
Suder, John, petit juror, 799.
Sudur, William, signer, 858.
Suffrage, exten. to soldiers opposed,
473–474; prov. for, in Fla. law, 528 n.;
qualifics. fixed by legis. council, 528 n.
Sugar cane, best lands for, 634; cultiv.
of, 570; future growth in Fla. pre-
dicted, 581; produc. of, 848.
Sullivan, –, clk., State Dept., let. ment.
to Brackenridge, 648.
Sully, Chester, declines appt. as alder-
man, 348, 358; nativity, 358; signer,
facing 702.
Sumerall (Summerlin), Jacob, grand
juror, 933.
Summarrall, Joseph, grand juror, 963 n.
Summerlin, see Sumerall.
Superintendent of Indian affairs (terr.),
act. govr. E. Fla. to serve as, 263;
compens. of govr. as, discussed, 925–
926; diff. betw. Fla. and other terrs.
re compens., 689–692; Duval explains
expense acct. as, 732–734; fin. accts.
of agt. to be sent to, 603; expenses of,
909; funds allotted to, by Treas. on
basis of quart. estimates, 453; govt.
authd. to act as, 390; instrs. to govt.
re author. and duties of, 452–455; no
add. sal. allowed govr. as, 654; origin
of union with duties of govr., 453 n.;
query re auth. of act. govr. as, 557;
rate of compens. adopted, 774–775;
status discussed, 626–627.
Supplies, for Span. officers and troops,
39–40.
Surveyor General, Fla. Terr., appt. of,
32 n.; appt. would encourage immig.,
908; duties and powers defined, 427–
428; office created, 427; prov. for
appt. of, 638; salary, 427, 638; to be
appd. by Pres. 427. See also Sur-
veyor of public lands.
Surveyor of Customs, appt. of, 56.
encls. to Sec. State answer to judge's
opinion in, 692, legal auths. cited in,
879, 881; urges dep. coll. to stop
export of timber, 791.
Stephenson, Rep. James, of Va.,
recomas. Luckett as land commr.,
849 n.
Sterrett, William, grand juror, 934.
Stevens, John, customs coll., Savannah,
Ga., let. to Sec. Treas., 794–795;
releases cargo of Only Daughter, 795
n.; repts. ship. of alleged illegally cut
timber, 794–795; seizes cargo of Only
Daughter, 795.
Stokes, Sen. Montfort, of N. C.,
recomás.: Branch as govr., 10 n.,
Robinson as U. S. marshal, 591 n.,
Wilson as judge, W. Fla. dist., 317 n.
Stone, Dr. M., resident physician and
pres. bq. of health, St. Johns Co., 359;
death of, 359; member ba. of health,
St. Augustine, 216; nativity, 359;
signs resol., 219.
Stone and Todd, of Phila., Pa., DuVal's
salary pa. to, as agts., 632; ment., 518.
Storrs, Andrew, petit juror, 799, 962;
signer, 367.
Storrs, B., signer, 858.
Storrs (Storr), James B., petit juror, 610;
signer, 321.
Stransley, Shadrack, appd. j. p., St.
Augustine (upper dist., St. Marys r.),
121.
Stringer, E., signer, 322.
Streeter, S., signer, 350, 530, 568.
Strong, C. B., recomás.: Jackson as
survi., 943 n., Long as survr., 943 n.
Strong, James, solicits appt. as govr.,
469 n.
Strong, John B., alleged convey. of Key
West to Murray, 462; Hamilton's
corresp. with, noted, 709; recoma. as
member legis. council, 423 n.; signer,
450, 761, 858; suits pend. against,
ment., 461–462; title of, to Key West,
382.
Sturges, Daniel, recomas. Jackson as
survr., 943 n.
Styx River, in Ala., rd. to Blakeley
crosses, 764.
Suarez, Anthony, signer, 566.
Suarez, Juan, signer, 309, 314.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1107
Surveyor of public lands, Butler appa.
as, 942–943; cands. and recomils. for,
943 n.; discussed re mark. Indian
bounds., 753; tenure, 943. See also
Surveyor General.
Surveys, bound. line Seminole reserv.,
794, 818; cost per mile fixed by law,
428; rd. from Cape Sable to be made,
924–925; to find route for St. Augus-
tine-Pensacola ră., 676.
Sutlers, loss sustained by, on removal
of troops from Pensacola, 836 n.
Suwannee (Suwany) Bay, white men
murdered near, 503.
Suwannee (Suwana; Suwaney) River,
Creeks settle on, 29; e. bound.:
E. Fla. Dist., 955, Middle Dist., 954,
956, 957; Indian agt. worked solely
with Indians betw., and Apalachicola
r., 908; Indians e. of, recoma. to move
betw., and Apalachicola r., 410;
Indians settle. on e. fork of, 463;
Indians w. of: fail to attend conf.
with Bell, 409, prefer to remain, 695;
Jackson deems center of future pop-
ulation, 234; land betw., and Alachua;
best in Fla., 533, inhabd. by Indians,
33; land betw., and Apalachicola r.:
extent of good, 848, favor. to large
settle., 908; land to Ockolockony r.
to be explored for site of terr. capital,
853 m.; ment., 206; open. of rq. to
St. Augustine ment., 902; provisions
for troops open. rd. to be deposited
at, 609; seat terr. govt. recomd. near,
234, 522–523, 643.
Suwateo, Cortez, signer, 289.
Swamps, rd. route, Cape Sable-St.
Marys, Ga., discussed, 944.
Swartwout, John, recomas. Hanham as
U. S. marshal, 639 n.
Syndic, St. Augustine, appt. of, 120.
Taber, William R., petit juror, 799, 963.
Tait, —, suit ment. re estate of, 949.
Taitsville (Ala.), rd. to Burnt Corn
from, 765; rd. to, forks to St. Stephens
and Claiborne, 765; wagon rd. from
Pensacola to, 765.
Talachopo River (Creek), in rel. to
Seminole reserv. bound., 906.
Talbot, Matthew, recomas. Long as
survn. pub. lands, 943 n.
Talbot Island, grand jurors from, 822.
Talbot, Sen. Isham, of Ky., recomás.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n.
Talbot, Theodore F., of Ky., recomas.:
Blair as judge, 43 n., Blair as terr.
secy., 44 n.
Tallahassee, DuVal locates at, 979;
Indian settle., 464; loc. in rel. to
roads and trails, 854–855; origin of
name, 854; proposed meet. place of
Gadsden and DuVal, 970; seat of
govt. estabd. at, 854–855; seat of
Middle Fla. jud. dist., 954 n.
Tallahassee (Tallahassé) fields, deserted,
854.
Tallahassee (Tallahassé) trail, seat of
govt. estabd. s. of, 854.
Tallapoosa towns, Upper Creeks from,
463.
Tampa, area south of, without good
land to sustain Indians, 748; fort
recomd. for, 213 n.; hostile activities
of Cowetas at, 119; vessel chartered
to transp. provs. for troops at, 914.
Tampa (Tampas) Bay, all land in vic. of,
pub., 834; area betw., and Charlotte
harbor proposed for Indian concent.,
652; area n. of, placed in Indian
reserv., 749; blag. material shipped to,
from Pensacola, 916; Cant. Brooke
estab. at head of, 842, 843; char. of
land near, 381, 842, 845; commander
to detail soldiers to aid in blag. rā.
from Cape Sable, 925; concentr. of
Indians s. of, discussed, 695–696; date
of Brooke's arrival at, 844; depot of
pirates, 919; estab. milit. post at, ap-
proved and ordered, 784–785, 807;
fug. slaves go from, to Bahama Is-
lands, 745; Hackley's alleged intent
to cut timber n. of, 847; head of,
recoma. as site for terr. govt., 381;
Indian rations to be issued at, 940 n.;
Indian settle.: in direction of, 464,
north of, 464, near, 463,464; Indians
in vicin. of, friendly, 842; Jackson
recomas. milit. estab. on, 720; less
import. for defense than Pensacola,
527; ment., 836, 838, 850; ment. re
For identical names, see inder mote, p. 988



1108 I N D E X
Indian reserv. bound., 660; milit.
occup. of, urged, 795–796, 802; milit.
post recomd. for, 750, 753; negroes
fortify at, 167 n., order on officer at,
desired for troops to guard survis.,
753; patrol of coast to, ordered, 39;
plan of transp. troops to, approved,
834; Pres. auths. estab. milit. post at,
782, 784; recoma. as site for milit.
post, 696; rept. re transp. troops to,
835–836; rd. from Cape Sable to
touch, 925; Sec. War recomds. milit.
post at, 778; ship lands alleged wood
cutters at, or Charlotte harbor, 834;
stores shipped to, from Pensacola,
916; supply of post by water transp.
discussed, 838; the Mary feared lost
enroute to, with blág. material and
funds, 927; to be visited by naval
vessels, 817; troops ordered to, 794,
817; troops shipped to, from Pensa-
cola, 915; visit of naval vessels urged,
796, 802.
Tapiola, José, witness, 614 n.
Tassiola, José, confirms Tio's testimony,
893; demand upon, ment., 892. See
also Fassiola.
Tate-ta-la-hoats-ka (Water Melon
Town), Indian settle. w. of Tampa
Bay, 463; inhabs. of, fled from Creek
nation, 463.
Taverniere (Tavanier) Key, chief resort
of wreckers, 685; distance to Cape
Florida, 685; near Old Mattacombe
Island, 685; nearness to Havana and
New Providence, 685–686.
Taxes, 150; act legis. council for levy.,
criticized, 565, 572; citizens W. Fla.
dist. oppose, 624–625; inhabs. Fla.
provinces exempt from, 621; legality
disputed in St. Augustine, 266; levied
by St. Augustine city council, 432;
levied by co. ct. in E. Fla., 432; no ref.
to, in Jackson's comms., 266; papers
re (St. Augustine) fwd. to Sec. State,
332; Span. system retained by Jack-
son, 158.
Taylor, E., signer, 814, 816.
Taylor, John W., Speaker H. R., signs
act, 8.
Taylor, Lt. Col. Zachary, Jackson ex-
pects resig., 163.
Taylor, Lt. William B. G., ordered to
deliver cargo of timber at Amelia
Island to Smith, 451–452.
Taylor, M. S., signer, 287.
Taylor, Sen. Waller, of Ind., recomas.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n., Luckett as land commr.,
849 n.
Tazewell, Littleton W., of Va., amt.
salary, 605; appd. commr. of claims,
8 n., 56.
Telfairton, Telfair Co. (Ga.), nearer
St. Marks than Ft. Mitchell, 579.
Tennessee (State), Anderson appd. from,
51, 56; Butler appd. survir. pub. lands
from, 942; Butler travels from, to
St. Augustine, 166; date of Jackson's
arrival at, 298; Jackson appd. from,
355; Jackson and family return to,
226, 237, 265; ment., 241; militia ob-
tainable from, 527; Overton visits, 983.
Tenny, Henry, signer, 321.
Terne, Domingo (Doming), petit juror,
612, 613 n.
Territorial Attorneys, query re amend-
ing comms. for, 48.
Territorial Court of Appeals, estab. of,
954 n.; compos. of, 954 n.
Territorial Courts, fin. needs of, 535–
536; estab. of inferior, criticized,
572–573.
Territorial Delegate, act to permit
soldiers to vote in elec. of, criticized,
572; bills for judges and clks. of elec.
for, 714-715; clks. of elec. of, pd.,
980, 981; consult. with, recomd. re
exten. of sess. of land commrs. at
St. Augustine, 564; corresp. of, 604,
605–606, 616, 619–622, 623–624, 628–
629, 633–635, 642–646, 648–649, 651–
652, 821, 859, 931–932; elec. of, dis-
cussed, 543–544; elec. of first, 528 n.;
Hamilton's candidacy discussed, 703,
704–705; issues to be presented by, to
Cong., 789, 790; ment., 675; notice
for elec. of, 693; provis. for, 528 n.;
provis. for elec. of, 398–399; query
re soldiers voting in elec. for, 473–474;
Worthington believed own elec. sure
had he remained in Fla., 506.
Territorial Governor, act of 1823 pro-
hibits leav. terr. without consent of
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N D E X
1109
Pres., 391 n.; amt. salary, 395; appd.
by Pres., 390, 394, 469–470; before
whom he takes oath, 394; comms. as,
9–11, 18–19, 469–470; compens, as
supt. Indians discussed, 925–926;
directed by law to publ. terr. laws,
507; DuVal recomd. for appt. as,
371-372; in comma. of militia, 390;
limited tenure, 390, 469; loc. of mes-
sages of, 490 n.; member legis. council,
391; power of appt. of civil and
militia officers, 390; powers, 390;
powers of Span., as of 1821, transfol.
to U. S., 251; proceeds. of, to be fund.
to Pres., 666; recomds. for appt. as, 3,
10 n., 371-372, 416 n.; status as supt.
Indian affairs, 390, 626–627; to admin.
oath to sup. judges, 563; to enforce
the laws, 390; to rept. to Pres. regen.
affairs of terr., 392; union of duties
with that of Indian supt., 453 n.;
various salaries proposed, 395 n.; veto
power absent in 1822 act, 390 n. See
also DuVal, Gov. William P.
Territorial laws, subject to approval or
veto by Cong., 392; to be fwd. to
Pres., 392; to be publd. by govr., 392.
Territorial Legislative Council, see Leg-
islative Council.
Territorial Marshal, see United States
Marshal.
Territorial officials, state. re accts. of,
629–632.
Territorial Secretary (under act of 1822),
amt. salary, 395; appt. by Pres., 391,
394, 413; before whom he takes oath,
394; duty in absence, death, or re-
moval of govr., 391, 456–457 n., duty
refwdg. exec. proceeds. to Pres., 391,
666; no author. to issue orders to
troops, 402; powers and duties, 391;
recomds. for appt. of, 3, 4–5; recomas.
for, cited, 44 n.; status as act. Supt.
Indian affairs, 626–627; tenure, 391,
413. See also Walton, George.
Territorial Secretary (E. Fla. under
temp. govt.), appt. of: Bell as act.,
113, 114, 115, 120, 166, 179, 215, 336,
345, Worthington, 44–45; exercises
no command of troops, 385; non-
arrival of, disturbs Jackson, 157–158;
salary, 107; tenure, 45. See also Bell,
John R.; Worthington, William G. D.
Territorial Secretary (W. Fla. under
temp. govt.), appt. of: Call as act.,
39 n., 158 n., Walton, 43–44, 55; ex-
ercises no comma. of troops, 385;
salary, 158 n.; tenure, 158 n. See
also Call, Richard K.; Walton,
George.
Territorial Superior (Supreme) Court,
act ment. provid. appeals to U. S.
Sup. Ct., 573 n.; amends. to 1822 act
discussed, 393 n.; appeals avail. from,
only in Fed. cases, 523; appts. to,
42–43, 42 n., 55, 242, 416–417, 451,
953–956; auth. and jurisd. of, 393;
char. of suits before, 738; estab. of,
523, 525; duties of clks., 394; in opera-
tion in W. Fla. in early period, 479;
judge of, appts. act. dist. atty., 737;
judge in each jurisd. to appt. clerks
of, 393; jud. power vested in two sup.
cts., each with one judge, 392; no
appeal from, in civil and criminal
cases, 523; no sess. held in Pensacola,
531; prov. re writs of error and ap-
peals, 393-394.
Territorial Superior (Supreme) Court
(E. Fla. Dist.), case remanded to,
438, 440; first sess. begins, 677; issue
of appt. clk. of, 284; murderer held
on trial before, 821; no place to hold
ct., 191; occupies room in govt. house,
687; proceeds. to begin in, re property
of wrecked ships, 723; unable to be
convened due to failure of govr. to
admin. oath to judge, 554–556; va-
cancy, 985.
Territorial Superior (Supreme) Court
(W. Fla. Dist.), absence of U. S.
marshal weakens, 506; case of piracy
before, 594; clk. appd. for, 505; first
suits brought before, 505; list of suits
in, 793, 959; no jail or ct. house for,
770; reappt. of Fromentin opposed,
183; Simon to be tried before, 673–674.
Territorial Superior (Supreme) Judges,
appd. by Pres., 394; appt. of, 42–43,
55, 242, 451, 953–956; before whom
oath taken, 394; changes ment. in,
383; date of begin. salary, 417 n.,
powers restricted by act of 1821,
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



1110 I N DE X
242, 251-253, 262-263; prov. of act | Thompson's Island (Key West), descrip.
organ. perm. govt. criticized re oath
of office of, 554–555; query re amend-
…ing comms. for, 47–48; recomds. for
appt. as, 3, 43 n.; salaries, 393 n.,
395, 525; tenure, 393 n., 415, 954,
955; tenure under recess appt., 451;
various salaries proposed, 395 n.
See also Blair, William W.; Bracken-
ridge, Henry M.; DuVal, William P.;
Fromentin, Eligius.
of, 386–388; need of light houses on
Fla. Keys, 387–388; owners of soil
agree to name of, 385–386; resort of
smugglers and wreckers from New
Providence, 387; so named by Perry,
385; strategic loc. for trade and de-
fense, 387. See also Key West.
Thornton, Capt. Arthur W., did not rec.
sched. pub. property, Pensacola, 984;
estimates cost of rent. quarters for
officers and troops, 482; instrs. to,
493 n.; instrs. to, re disposal pub.
blågs. at Pensacola, 576; lets. ment.
to QMG, 600; let. to Walton encli.
to Maury, 481; lets. to: act. QMG,
493, QMG, 600–601, Walton, 482;
let. to, from QMG, 575—576; ordered
Theyson, John, signer, 289.
Thigpin, Lewis, petit juror, 823, 935.
Thom [MS. torn], -, signer, 762.
Thomas, Lt. Joseph, case against, by
U. S., 66 n.
Thomas, Sen. Jesse B. of Ill., recomás.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Hubbard as
judge, 43 n. to rent house for legis. council, 493
Thomas Shields, a schooner, case of, for n.; q.m. officer at Pensacola, 489 n.
transp. slaves to W. Fla. discussed, Thornton, Francis A., let. ment. to
867–869; chartered for transp. troops Yancey, 723.
to Tampa Bay, 835; cost for services | Thresh, Thomas, signer, 297.
as transport, 838; cost of charter of, Tiboret, William, signer, 819.
915; from New Orleans, lands negro | Tilton, Nehemiah, petit juror, 799,
slaves at Pensacola, 876; in alleged 963 n.
illegal trade, 740, 741, 742; in Mobile | Timber, acquittal of persons charged
Bay, 138; late arrival at St. Marks,
101; loaded with supplies for Pensa-
cola and St. Marks, 138; ment., 109;
order to Ft. Gadsden to transport
ordnance and troops, 101; ships troops
- and sub. stores to Tampa Bay, 915,
916; to call at St. Marks on return
from Tampa Bay, 836.
Thomas, Stevens, recomds. Mitchell as
survi. pub. lands, 943 n.
Thompson, Gilbert L., authd. to act
vice Forbes, 12; bears let. from Forbes
to Jackson, 139; leaves the Hornet,
58; returns from Havana to Mont-
pelier, 139; solicits appt. as: dist. atty.,
50 n., terr. secy., 44 n.; son of Sec.
Navy, 44 n.
Thompson, Judge John, of Ark. Terr.,
never entered on duties, 254–255.
Thompson, Jonathan, of N. Y., recomds.
Caines as judge, 43 n.
Thompson, Smith, see Secretary of the
Navy.
Thompson, Rep. Wiley, of Ga., recomas.
Forsyth as survr. pub. lands, 943 n.
with depreds. on, 809; act discussed
for preserv. of pub., in Fla., 370, 372,
584 m.; alleged intent of Hackley to
cut pub., n. of Tampa Bay, 847; Atty.
Genl. opinion re use of troops to sup-
press depreds. sent to land and law
officials in Fla., 373 n.; cargo seized,
to be released to Smith, 451–452;
cargo at Savannah released, 795 n.;
cedar, taken on brig in St. Johns r.,
384; claimants' certifs. insuff. proofs
of ownership, 932; claimants to, must
apply to dist. atty. before cutting,
726; claims of alleged private owners
for timber cut by soldiers, 931; clear.
of vessels laden with, discussed, 693;
cut legally for U. S. Navy, 377–378;
depreds. on pub., discussed, 363, 370,
372, 373–374, 375–376, 377–378, 378–
379, 583–584, 648, 669, 693, 699–701,
791, 794–795, 809–810, 865; difficulty
in identif. of timber thieves, 700, 701;
efforts to prevent depreds. on, by
intervention of governor and customs
service and by milit, and naval forces,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X
1111
372, 373, 377–378, 383, 407–408, 418,
669, 674–675, 682, 726, 834; efforts to
prevent export by: detention, 436, pro-
hibition of sailing, 669, seizure, 451–
452, 795 n., use of navy, 430–431, use
of troops, 373; extent depreds. on
pub., near Tampa Bay, 848; instrs.
to prevent illegal cut. of, on pub.
lands, 669; live oak and cedar dis-
cussed, 648; no evid. of action by
Brooke re arrest of trespassers, 835
n.; notice re cutting of pub., 726;
prohib. of cut. of pub., discussed, 370,
372, 373, 374, 375–376, 377–379, 669;
rept. by Forbes re depreds. on, 384;
repts. of Hutton cited re survey of,
378 m.; ship lands alleged wood cutters
at Tampa Bay or Charlotte harbor,
834; validity of claims to, discussed,
693. See also Land; Live Oak; Red
Cedar.
Tingle, James G., signer, 350.
Tingle, James S., clk. sup. ct., E. Fla.
dist., certifies: list grand and petit
jurors, 801, 823, 935, list of jurors
entitled to compens., 963; nativity,
356; recomds. DuVal as govr., 372 n.;
signer, 371, 530. See also Gibbs and
Tingle.
Tingle, James Y., signer, 401.
Tio, Jose Marcos, evid. re payt. ct. bond,
893.
Tippit, James, signer, 322.
Tisson, Aaron, witness, 937 n.
Tivoli, in rel. to Pensacola bay, 156.
Tobacco, future growth of, in Fla. pre-
dicted, 581.
Tock-ta-eth-la, Indian settle., 464.
Tod (Todd), George C., petit juror, 611,
613 n.; signer, 314.
Todd, May Ann, witness, not found,
614 n.
Todd, see Stone and Todd.
Tombigbee (Tombeckbee) River, in
Ala., 766.
Tomoca (Tomoka; Tomoko), Craig
collects Indians at, for sale of tobacco
and rum, 496; loc. of, 496 n.; petit
jurors from, 799, 961, 963; rq. from
St. Augustine needed, 634; rd. to
New (Old) Smyrna needed, 633, 634.
Tompkins, Daniel D., recomds. Hanham
as U. S. marshal, 639 n. See also
Vice President.
Tonard, Francisco, signer, 289, 310, 315.
Tone, Thomas Y., of Conn., recomas.
Smith as govr., 416 n.
Took-o-sa-moth-lay, Indian chief, 463.
Top-hul-ga, Indian settle., 464; joins
Cho-co-nick-la in E. Fla., 464.
Top-ke-gal-ga, Indian settle., 464.
Torri, Domingo, grand juror,
signer, 310, 315, 625.
Tortugas islands, included in E. Fla., 98.
See also Dry Tortugas.
Totten, James G., see Bernard, Simon,
and Totten.
Toulmin, Judge Harry, of Ala. recomas.
Duval as U. S. marshal, 591 n.
Town constable, Pensacola, appt. of, 131.
Townes, Edward, appa. j. p., Pensacola,
131 n.; signer, 323.
Toxell, Danil, signer, 289.
Trading houses, estab. of, among Indian
tribes, 397 n.
Trant, James, signer, 323.
Travers, Guillermo, helps pay Bell's fine,
269 n.
Travers, William, appa.: aid to Hernan-
dez, 721, alderman, St. Augustine,
120, city warden, St. Augustine, 120,
member bq. of health, St. Augustine,
121; grand juror, 961, 963 n.; petit
juror, 800; recomma. for legis. coun-
cil, 616; signer, 371, 450, 530, facing
702, 762.
Treasurer of the United States (Tucker),
White funds. certif. of appt. to, 595.
Treasury Department, protests White's
bill, 594.
Treaty of 1819, act (text) implementing,
5–8; adjust. of accts. under provisions
of, 629–632; approp. by Cong. in
execu. of, 635; articles: in dispute,
146, ment. favor. Span. vessels, 397;
articles discussed re: delivery of archs.,
336, 337–338, 339, 340, 342, 344, 516,
517, delivery of forts, 23–24, land
claims, 829, official records, 105, 106,
ordnance, 122, pub. property ceded
under, 114, ratif. by Spain, 13, ratif.
of, 139, removal of Span. officials
from Fla., 230–231, removal of Span.
896;
For identical names, see indea: note, p. 988



1112
I N DE X
troops, 22, 23–24, transf. blogs., etc.,
123, transp. Span. troops to Havana,
122; cession of Fla. to U. S., 424, 525;
claims art. ment., 206; concluded
prior to adoption of Span. const., 168;
construc. of, discussed or ment., 40,
143, 144; construc. re evacu. by Span.
discussed, 145–146; discussed, 54–55;
discussed re ordnance, 75–77; dispute
re art. Seven, 149; E. Fla. transfd. to
U. S. under terms of, 345; Fla. con-
sidered part of U. S. with ratif. of,
250, 251; funds appropd. to execute,
510, 735; Jackson interprets, 30–31;
land claims not rejected by, ment.,
426; law discussed re, 18–19; ment.,
74, 96, 104, 110, 124, 238; provs.
ment. re: Fla. cession to U. S., 111,
land, 619; recogs. grants made prior
to certain date, 492; rights of U. S.
under, discussed, 142; settle. of
Maury's acct. for expenses re execu.
of, 604-605; silence of, re: rations for
Span. troops, 72, transfer of ordnance,
72; sixth art. discussed, 150–151;
status of former Span. officials and
subjects under, 240; stipul. re land
claims, 426.
Treaty of 1783, arts. re cession of Fla.
to Spain encla. to Worthington, 177;
ceded Fla. to Spain, 105; cession of
Fla. to Spain discussed, 399; rights of
Brit. subjects under, discussed, 399–
400; royal order ment. re, 96; text of,
needed by land commrs., 485.
Trial, a schooner, involved in admiralty
case, 793.
Triay, Antonio, alderman, St. Augus-
tine, 194 n., 358; nativity, 358;
signer, facing 702.
Triay (Trei), Antonio José, grand
juror, 798, 963 n.; signer, 704, 761.
Triay, Francis (Francs), signer, 814,
816, 819.
Triay, Francis (Frances) G., signer,
814, 816, 819.
Triay, Gabriel, signer, facing 702, 704,
761.
Triay, Peter, signer, 814, 816, 819.
Trimble, Rep. David, of Ky., recomds.:
DuVal as govr., 372 n., Sebree as
U. S. marshal, 591 n.
Triplett, Lt. Joshua Botts, ordered to
remove pub. property from St.
Marks, 835–836.
Trope, Pedro, signer, 371.
Troup, George M., of Ga., recomd. as
govr., 10 n.
Trout Creek, grand jurors from, 822;
petit juror from, 935.
Troutman, Henry, signer, 477.
Truman, Richard, signer, 290.
Trussell (Trussel), John, grand juror,
936.
Tucker, Hezekiah, signer, 477.
Tucker, Isaac, grand juror, 822; petit
juror, 934; signer, 477.
Tucker, Rufus R., signer, 477.
Tucker, Thomas Tudor, see Treasurer of
the United States.
Tummell, James, signer, 288.
Tunstall, George, and Nicholas, publish
the Floridian, 157 n. See also Nicholas
and Tunstall.
Turke-bayo, Indian chief, attends St.
Marks to meet. govr., 578; distrusts
sincerity of govt., 578.
Turner, David, petit juror, 823; signer,
565.
Turner, James, signer, 565.
Turner, Jesse (Jessee), petit juror, 935;
signer, 565.
Tuscaloosa (Ala.), on rd. to Nashville,
Tenn., 766; rd. laid out to Claiborne,
766.
Tuske-Hajo (Taskchee; Tuski-Hajo), a
Seminole chief, reserv. for, 749; visits
Coppinger, 212.
Tus-Ki-har-gi (Cothron), Seminole chief,
holds talk with DuVal, 501, 503; visits
Pensacola to learn reason for cancel.
of treaty conf., 597.
Tus-ta-muck-e, Seminole chief,
ment. to Walton, 305.
Tuuad, Francisco, witness, 61.4 n.
Twitchell, Timothy, explains use of
name “Coulons” in indict. of Williers,
898; foreman grand jury, 872, 896,
975, 978; grand juror, 613 n.; let.
to Steele, 898; recomma. for legis.
council, 803; signer, 323; s. state. in
support of Steele, 895.
Tyler, Levi, draft in favor of, to be pd.,
452–453.
let.
For identical names, see inder note, p. 988



I N DE X
1113
Tyler, —, of Charleston, S. C., 728.
Uchee Indians, resid. Spring Garden,
464.
Ugarte, José, arrest of, declined by
Worthington, 302 n.; dispute re, 247.
Underwood (Underwd; Woodard), Isac
(Isaac), petit juror, 611, 612, 613 n.
Underwood, William, signer, 289.
Unducth, Henry, witness, 614 n.
United States, acct. discussed for print.
laws of, 728; to pay U. S. cits. claims
against Spain, 8 n.
United States Army, creation of east.
and west. depts., 21 n.; officers appd.
to positions in Fla., 21 n.; reduction of:
discussed or ment., 32, effect on reten-
tion of officers, 163–164, criticised
by Jackson, 163–164; reorganiz. of,
21 n. See also United States troops.
United States Bank (Charleston br.),
drafts on: cashed in St. Augustine
without discount, 735–736, in favor of
W. Smith, 804, in payt. of print. bills,
728, requested, when St. Augustine
debt is paid, 735; W. Smith requests
check on, in payt. of St. Augustine
claims, 792.
United States Bank (Louisville br.),
DuVal requests check on, for pay of
Gaither and Hynes, 567.
United States Bank (New Orleans br.),
draft on, in favor of Walton, 671;
draft on, not available, 792; Jackson
requests credit on, 100; Jackson's
bal. to be deposited in, 368; Walton
requests check on, in payt. of bal.,
769; White desires check on, 738;
will cash Jackson's draft at discount,
37.
United States Bank (Washington br.),
checks on: in payt. of clk. of elec., 980,
981, sent to Alvarez, 820; ment., 738.
United States Congress, act by, nec.
for sale pub. property, 279; act re
regul. Indian trade sent to DuVal,
491; act prohib. illegal cut. and ship.
of timber sent to Elton, 377; acts
discussed re: commerce and navig.
of Fla., 477 n., estab. bſd. land commrs.,
948, estab. ports of entry, 477 n.,
Indian trade, 926, 927 n., land claims
and titles, 580–582, temp. organ.
Fla., 250, 251, 253, 263, 402–403,
preserv. of timber in Fla., 370, 372,
418, reduction and reorganiz. U. S.
army, 21 n., requir. wreckers to bring
goods into Amer. port of entry, 814
n., suppress. of slave trade, 740, 742,
trade and intercourse with Indians,
504; acts legis. council to be laid
before, 599; acts ment. re: adjust.
land claims in Orleans and La. Terrs.,
172, 173, amend. to act estab. terr.
govt., 953–954,956, 957, amt. security
for U. S. marshal, 175, applic. writ of
habeas corpus, 252, approp. funds for
occup. and temp. govt. Fla., 480, arts
and engraving, 396, auth. approp.
for St. Augustine-Pensacola rq., 902,
author. erection of lighthouse for
Pensacola, 650, author. erect. add.
lighthouses, 651 n., author. Pres. to
preserve pub. timber in Fla., 700,
701, auth. survey of rq. from Cape
Sable to St. Augustine, 924, better
organiz. of the Treas., 65, cancell.
post rq., 487 n., compens. of dist.
attys., 738, confirm. R. C. Congreg.
in possess church property, 498, copy-
rights, 396, courts, 393, customs dists.
in Fla., 436, disburse. pub. money,
670, estab. Indian trad. houses, 397,
estab. lighthouses, 571 n., estab. jud.
act, 573, estab. milit. posts, 584,
estab. Orleans Terr. and La. Dist.,
172–173, estab. perm. terr.govt. Fla.,
422, 440, 441, 445, 507, 563, 565, 574,
599, 640, 666, 913, 954, 955, 981, es-
tab. P. O. 396, estab. post roads, 396,
487 n., 759, estab. post routes, 367 n.,
estab. St. Augustine-Pensacola post
route, 786, exec. treaty of 1819, 617,
extend. sal. to Scott, 841 n., exten.
juris. terr. cts., 174, fugs. from justice,
396, illegal import. of goods, 740,
Indian trade, 26, 27 n., judiciary,
186, 973, land claims, 428, 619, 623,
656, 678, 711, 805, 849, 958, light-
houses, 523 n., obtain. patents, 396,
occup. of Fla., 91, 830, organiz. bq.
land commrs., 563, postal service,
916, prescrib. mode of keep. records
in each state, 397, prevent. certain
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1114
I N DE X
crimes, 895, prohib. soldiers voting in
elec. for terr. deleg., 572 n., promot.
useful arts, 396, promulg. laws U. S.,
396, preserv. of timber in Fla., 373,
374, 58.4 n., provid. appeals to U. S.
Sup. Ct., 573 n., publ. laws U. S.,
396, 486, rations for Indians and their
visits to the govt., 397, reduction
U. S. army, 32, regul. of intercourse
with Indian tribes, 453, 454, 455,
547, 548, regul. passenger ships, 404,
repts. of passengers from foreign
places, 485–486, revenue admin., 397,
salary customs coll., 831, 840, settle.
pub. lands, 396, settling land claims,
235, slave trade, 396, Span. treaty,
18, statehood for Orleans Terr., 173,
temp. govt. Fla., 104, 110, 260, use
of archs. by land commrs., 759; acts
passed: allow. compens. to White
and Davidson, 781 n., author. open.
rds., 522 n., estab. add. bq. land
commrs., 571 n., estab. court of
appeals, 954 n., estab. Middle Jud.
Dist., 954 n., grant. preemption
rights, 571 n.; acts prohib. depreds.
on pub. timber to be enforced by
armed forces, 372, 373, 374, 375,
377–378, 378–379; acts re trade and
intercourse with Indians fººd. to
Indian agt., 603; acts (terts): amend.
an act to regul. claims and titles to
land, 635–639, enablg. Pres. to occupy
E. and W. Fla., 5–8, estab. Fla. terr.
govt., 389–399, for ascertain. claims
and titles to land, 424–428; approp.
to be requested for open. St. Augus-
tine-Pensacola rd., 676; approves
acts of legis. council, 645, 758; con-
firms land claims, 292 n.; consent of,
needed for open. St. Augustine-
Pensacola rq., 509, 652; criticism of
act organiz. perm. govt. of Fla., 540–
541; fails to approp. funds for terr.,
510; grants tract of land and auths.
sale to raise funds for blågs. for
capital, 853 n.; Jackson recomds.
action against Span. land claims, 212;
list of acts applic. to the terr., 395–
397; memorials laid before, 318–323,
332–333, 348–350, 366–367, 521 n.,
521–528, 565–566, 568, 570–573, 812–
817,819; ment., 226, 237, 377, 947; no
act by, author. temp. appt. of marshal
by sup. judge, 506; petitions laid
before, 290–291, 296–298, 312–316,
401, 857, 900–901; plan of terr.govt.
for Fla. to be enacted by, 172; prov.
of act organ. perm. govt. criticized
re oath of office of judges, 554–555;
rejects memorial city council St.
Augustine, 333 n.; trial ment. under
act re intercourse with Indian tribes,
670, 673; vetoes acts legis. council: con-
cerning wrecked property, 815 n., to
levy taxes, 725, 788, giving right of
city to levy and collect taxes, 769.
United States District Attorneys, appd.
by Pres., 394; appt. of: E. Fla. dist.,
49–50, 56, 413–414, 680, 682, 737,
Middle Fla. dist., 956–957, W. Fla.
dist., 414 n., 589–590; cannot appt.
deputies, 48; circular instrs. to, 65–
66; compens. of act., discussed, 781;
death of Bird, 300; duties re: illegal
trade, 740, land act, 637; lacks office
space (E. Fla.), 191; list of suits begun
by, 65–66 n.; receipts of office missing
(W. Fla.), 700; recomas. for appt. of,
4 n., 50 n., 300, 414 n., 682–683;
regular returns requested, 65; rift
with sup. ct. judge, W. Fla., 860–862,
866–867; Sec. State advised to defer
appt. of first (W. Fla.), 677; tenure,
414, 590, 680, 806, 956; two, provided
for, 394.
United States District Court, appt. of
clk. discussed (E. Fla.), 91–92; not
yet organized in E. Fla., 375.
United States District Court of Ken-
tucky, cited in defin. powers terr. cts.,
393, 394.
United States House of Representatives,
55; bill before, to amend land act re
Fla., 619; docs. re Jackson-Callava
affair sent to, 368; Jackson's policy
debated in, 350–351; let. to, from
Pres., 402–403; passes bill for open.
roads, 634, 642; passes bill for St.
Augustine-Pensacola ră., 654; pub.
lands comm. recomas.: add. instrs. to
land commrs., E. Fla., 951, Pres. take
measures to preserve pub. records rel.
to lands, 951; requests Pres. to safe-
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X
1115
... guard Span. records re lands in Fla.,
964—965; rept. and resol. of pub. lands
comm. re claims in E. Fla., 950–951;
resols.: call. on Pres. to convey acts
legis. council to, 584, of inquiry ment.
re command of troops in Fla., 384;
resols. ment.: as to what author. is
vested with the milit. command in
Fla., 402, request. inform. from Pres.
re work of land commrs., 623.
United States Marshal (under temp.
Govt.), appt. of, 45–46, 134–135, 169;
appt. of one sufficient, 51; arrives in
St. Augustine, 113; can appt. deputies,
48; copy of Forbes’ comm. as, deliv-
ered to Worthington, 178; deputed as
commr. on archs., 419; dep. appd. for
W. Fla., 271; expense accts. re dist.
ct. ment., 370; lacks office space, 191;
ment., 448; not entitled to pub. bligs.,
304; oath of naturaliz. taken before,
435; only appd. official in St. Augus-
tine, 115; ordered to prepare for ap-
peal case of McHardy v. Saavedra,
439; ordered to seize Span. archives,
239; queries re: amending comm. for,
48, scope of duties, 118; recomd. for
appt. of, 4 n.; security for perform.
duties discussed, 135; to reside at St.
Augustine, 175; two, provided by act
of 1822, 394. See also Forbes,
James G. -
United States Marshal (E. Fla. Dist.),
appd. by Pres., 394; appt. of, 639–
640; duties discussed, 666–667; duties
re land act, 637; non-arrival of, 540;
property of wrecked ships to be
placed in custody of, 723; recoma. for
appt. of, 529–530, 639 n.; tenure, 639;
Worthington declines appt. as, 506;
Worthington plans to give bonds in
Baltimore, 483. See also Smith,
Waters.
United States Marshal (Middle Fla.
Dist.), appt. of, 957; tenure, 957.
See also Hanson, John M.
United States Marshal (W. Fla. Dist.),
appd. by Pres., 394; appt. of, 505,
590–591; cannot summon inhabs. to
guard prisoners, 788; compens. of act.,
discussed, 781 n.; Davidson and White
pd. for services as act., 781 m.; duties
reland act, 637; need of funds stressed
for admin. of court, 789; Robinson
declines appt., 591 n.; Sebree enters
on duties of, 676; select. of grand
juries by, criticised, 865–866; tenure,
591. See also Sebree, William.
United States Navy, base estab. at Key
West, 705 n.; Brooke recomds. visit
of, to Tampa Bay,845; contractors for,
cut timber on the St. Johns and
Mosquito, 376; contrib. re protec. and
exten. E. Fla., 385–388; move. of
ships of, along w. coast Fla. urged,
796, 802; needed to enforce revenue
laws, 49; operates against illegal ship.
timber, 407-408; patrol ordered to W.
coast Fla., 835 n.; timber cut for, to
be survd., 377–378; to aid in prevent.
depreds. on pub. timber, 377–378,834.
United States Senate, bill for open.
roads sent to, for concurrence, 634;
confirms appts.: Blair and Davis as
land commrs., 805, Blair as sup. ct.
judge, 954, Brackenridge as judge,
955 n., Butler as surviv. pub. lands,
942 n., 943, Call and Hernandez as
brigs. genl., 529 n., council members,
391, 423, 429, 640 n., Hamilton as
U. S. Atty., 414, Hanson as U. S.
marshal, 957 n., Humphreys as
Indian agt., 430 n., Luckett as land
commr., 849 n., Macon as U. S. Atty.,
806 n., Murray as land commr., 958
n., Sebree as U. S. marshal, 590 n.,
591, J. Smith as judge, 416, W. Smith
as U. S. marshal, 639, Steele as U. S.
atty., 589 n., 590, Walton as terr.
secy., 413, White as land commr.,
808 n., Wright as U. S. atty., 956 n.;
fails to act on road bill, 642; fear
expressed re failure to pass new land
act, 619; H. R. bill on St. Augustine-
Pensacola rd. deferred, 654; ment.,
43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 55, 451, 680, 712;
ratifies Seminole treaty, 817; Sem-
inole treaty to be considered by, 778,
783; to confirm appt. of higher
officials, 394.
United States Subsistence Department,
arranges to supply Span. troops en-
route to Cuba, 22.
United States Supreme Court, appeals
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1116
I N DE X
to, from terr. sup. ct. allowed, 394,
573 n.
United States troops, aid requested by
civil auth. to arrest individuals, 495;
auth. over, in Fla., discussed, 402–
403; claims of inhabs. E. Fla. against,
745; commd. of, in Fla., 117; defense
of terr. by: alerted re possible Indian
attack, 919, authd. remove settlers
from Indian towns, 504, detail of,
to aid mark. Indian bound., 794 n.,
exec. of duties by officers ment. re
Indian affairs, 454, requested as guard
for bound. Survns., 753, station. of,
at Tampa Bay and other points
adjac. to Indian reserv. recomd., 750,
752, 753, to be furnished Walton on
requisition, 238; detach. present at
Indian treaty negots., 750, 752;
distrib. after complet. of occup.: army
surgeon recomds. removal from fort
at St. Augustine, 246, ordered to
Tampa Bay, 784–785, 795–796, 802,
817, 842, perm. hdqrs. fourth inf. at
Cant. Clinch, 784, reason for removal
from fort at St. Augustine, 216–217,
removed from Pensacola, 470, 472,
557, 698, 772, transp. of detail of,
from Charleston to St. Augustine
recomd., 902, transp. to Tampa Bay,
834–836, 914–915; DuVal desires one
comp. under orders of govr., 470–471,
472; employ. in mark., survey., and
build. roads recoma. and approved,
509, 606, 607, 635, 642, 643, 644, 651–
652, 676, 726, 736, 737, 766, 902, 924,
925, 968; employ. in preserv. pub. tim-
ber: at St. Augustine placed under
requisition of govr. to prevent de-
struct. of, 726, cut. of, on alleged
private land, discussed, 931–932, to
be used to suppress depreds., 372,
373, 374, 378–379, 407, 834; exclude
city council from quarters, 227, 228;
extra pay for open. roads proposed,
608; health of, in W. Fla., 538; housing
and supplies: amt. and type of supplies
for troops sent to Tampa Bay, 835, at
Manuels, distant from supplies, 143,
in garrison keep gardens for partial
support, 842, in Pensacola, 304, 482,
in St. Augustine, 170,274, 304, prob-
lem of quarters, 215, 216, 217, without
supplies at Montpelier, 138; mortality
in St. Augustine, 247; move from
Fernandina to St. Augustine vetoed,
63; occup. of the Floridas by: await
call for removal to Manuels, 143,
await transfer from Fernandina to St.
Augustine, 46–47, await withdrawal
of Span. troops before occupy. milit.
posts, 14, 30, date of arrival at
Fernandina from Boston, 46, detachs.
desigd. to occupy Fla. posts at Pensa-
cola, St. Augustine and St. Marks,
20, 22, fourth regt. leaves Mont-
pelier for Manuels, 92, move near
Pensacola, 108, occupy St. Marks,
101, ordered to Galvez Spring, 147,
148, orders to occupy Barrancas,
108–109, plans for, 15, 19–20, 22, 28,
30, 31–35, 41, St. Augustine archives
E. Fla. delivered to, 112; occupy
blågs. needed for civil govt., 470–471,
472; officers fourth regt. recomd. King
as govr., 469 m.; officers of one regi-
ment confine civilian prisoners in
Pensacola, 448; orders re discipline in
Pensacola, 108; respective command-
ers in Fla., 385; station near Pensa-
cola opposed by Callava, 82–83;
supplies for, while open. rd. deposited
at several points, 609; voting in terr.
opposed, 473–474, 544, 572.
United States v. Crupper, ment., 65 n.
United States v. Dusar and Israel, ment.,
66 n.
United States v. Giraldo, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Gobert, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Nicholas, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Riley, action re of:
Brackenridge discussed, 869, Steele
discussed, 869; ans. to motion for
discharge, 878–882; opinion re dis-
cussed, 692.
United States v. Saltonstall, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Sanchez, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Steele, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Thomas, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Williamson and Shear-
man, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Woodruff, ment., 66 n.
United States v. Wright, ment., 66 n.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N D E X
1117
Upper Creeks, from Tallapoosa towns,
463.
Uptegrove, John, signer, 566.
Vaca Keys, see Key Vaca.
Valdez, Petrona, signer, 760.
Van Brunt, C. H., surgeon's mate, leaves
for Norfolk with sick seamen, 776.
Vandervalle, Prospere, witness, 614 n.
Van Evour, Ede, petit juror, 800, 962;
signer, 367, 450, 858.
Van Lier, T. E., signer, 371.
Van Rensselaer, Rep. Solomon, of N. Y.,
recomas. Hubbard as judge, 43 n.
Vansant, Stephen, grand juror, 822.
Vargas, Pedro de, Span. land grants to,
discussed, 6 n.
Varguez, Manuel M., signer, 764.
Wattel, E. de, work re law of nations
cited, 261.
Vaughan (Vaughn), Daniel, 934.
Vaughan (Vaughn), John D., grand
juror, 933; petit juror, 823, 934.
Weigmand (Wrigmand), Jh, signer, 290,
310, 315.
Vera Cruz (Mex.), the Fulton proceeds
to, 649.
Verplanck, Rep. Gulian C., of N. Y.,
let. to Sec. State, 17; recomds. Rod-
man as coll. customs, 17.
Versailles (France), treaty (1783) ment.,
68.
Vicent, Vizente (Bicente), signer, 289,
310, 314.
Vice President, Tompkins, let. to, from
Hernandez, 619–622.
Victory, a brig, chartered to transp.
troops to Tampa Bay, 835.
Vidal, Nicholas Maria, settle. of estate
of, hindered by retention of papers by
Span., 189 n.
Vidal's Heirs v. John Innerarity, Callava
prepares to carry papers re, to Cuba,
338; ment., 251, 266; refd. to Walton,
230.
Vieja, José de, signer, 290.
Wiel (Vial), Prosper, grand juror, 960,
963 n.
Vignoles, Charles B., extent of explor.
by, 754; Indian dept. stores delivered
to, 533; interpreter and translator,
360; ment., 350; nativity, 360; note
re, 754; services under Bell, 754 n.;
signer, 367; signs rept. for St. Au-
gustine council, 205; surveyor, 360;
validity of map questioned, 754;
works by, 754 n.
Vilaseca, Thomas, signer, 309, 314.
Vilasecar, James, petit juror, 613 n.;
witness, 614 n.
Vilaseco, James, witness, 614 n.
Williers, Louis de, alias Lepine Coulons,
888, 896; affid. ment. against Steele,
863 n.; indicted for riot, 896.
Williers, Manuel de, alias Raoul Coulons,
888; indicted for riot, 896.
Williers, Manuel de, and Luis (Louis),
explan. of use of name “Coulons” in
indict. of, 898–899; officers in Span.
army, 891, 892; plea of atty. for, 891;
Steele defends action re, 975, 978.
Williers (Willers), Marcos de, arrest and
detention of, discussed, 403-404;
arrested and confined by Walton,
347 n., 369; order sent to Walton to
free, 368, 369; signer, 625.
Williers, Marcos de, and Guillemard,
memorial discussed, 404.
Viola, José, witness, not found, 614 n.
Virginia, birthplace of: Hackley, 360,
Hudnall, 359, Murray, 357, Tingle,
356; Hackley appd. from, 52, 56;
Macon appd. U.S. Atty. from, 806.
Vives, Don Francisco Dionisio, Span.
minister to U.S., 145; Callava pro-
posed conf. betw., and Pres. re
problem of ordnance, 77; Coppinger
sends docs. to, via Cross, 116; let.
ment. to, 12; let. to Gov. Gen. Cuba
ment., 11; opposes U.S. occup. before
Span. removal, 12; promises no delay
in surrender of Fla., 138; requests
U.S. troops await removal of Span.
troops, 70.
Volusia (Volucia), grand jurors from,
797; loc. of, 496 n.; on Pensacola-
St. Augustine post rq., 487; St.
Johns r. charted to, 285.
Voorhees, John W. D., appd. health
officer, Pensacola, 131; signer, 289.
Wa-cissa-talofa, Indian settle., 463.
Wakulla (Wachulla) River, 234.
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



1118 I N D E X
Wales, Joseph, appd. temp. inspector of
customs at Tomo Mosquito, 52 n.
Walker, David, court crier, E. Fla.,
356; nativity, 356.
Walker, Rep. Felix, of N.C., recomds.
Branch as govr., 10 n.
Walker, Sen. Freeman, of Ga., let. to
Sec. State, 4–5; recomás.: Beers as
p.m., St. Augustine, 4–5, Flournoy as
govr., 10 n., Steele as U.S. Atty., 590
n., Walton as terr. secy., 4–5, 56.
Walker, Sen. John W., of Ala., recomds.
Ware as land commr., 429 n.; requests
Sec. Treas. to fund. Ware's comm. with
relevant docs. to Pensacola, 455.
Walker, Robert, signer, 321.
Walker, S., court crier, 596.
Walker, William, petit juror, 935;
signer, 813, 816.
Wall, Adam, signer, 477.
Wallen, Elias, grand juror, 797, 960, 963
n.; recomd. for legis. council, 616;
signer, 367, 530, facing 702, 762.
Walton, Secretary and Acting Governor
George (Fla. Terr.), accepts appt.,
413 n.; accounts: absence from Pensa-
cola delays, 769, bal. due to, 792,
bill for services as act. Supt. Indian
affairs awaits state. of, 654–655,
encla. to Sec. State, 663, 843, esti-
mates for Indian suptcy. cut due to
small approp., 655, funds in hands of,
663, requests full settle. of, 844,
settled, 514, 792, settle. discussed,
517–518; acks. receipt of comm., 456;
apptd. and commd., 413; arrival in
St. Augustine, 682; believes: Indians
should be concentrated in one body
far from connect. betw. St. Augustine
and Pensacola, 670, Indians will be
disappointed at non-arrival of U. S.
officials at St. Marks conf., 559,
treaty conf. with Indians must be
postponed, 554 n., troops not to
return to Pensacola, 550; certifies:
house rent, 483, memorial of Escambia
Co. justices, 479, 481, Miller's status
as clk., Escambia Co., 662–663;
complains re expense of transp. of
family to St. Augustine, 665–666;
corresp. ment. with Clinch re use of
pub. blags., 562; delay of depart.
for St. Augustine, 665; departs for
St. Augustine, 670, 672; drafts: for
govt. expenses to be negotd., 538, on
New Orleans recd. for Indian ex-
penses, 671, on State Dept. for funds,
457, on War Dept. for Richards to
be pd., 654, on War Dept. in favor
of Nesbit, 598, sent to New Orleans
to be negotd., 671; expresses doubt
reportion of pub. blógs. at Pensacola
belonging to civil author., 57.5–576;
illness of, 665, 837; Indian affairs:
confesses ignorance of, 557–559, 562,
confusion re auth. of act. govr. as
supt., 557, DuVal fails to inform, re,
557–558, measures re, approved, 626;
in need of clk., 561; instrs. by, to
Humphreys, 601–603, 607; instrs.
to return to Pensacola, 688; kept in
Pensacola by illness in family, 675;
letters ment. to: Clinch, 551, 562,
Dept. of State, 481, Maury, 514,
792, Sec. State, 457, 481, 514, Sec.
War, 562, 576, 577, 626, 629, 634,
643, 654, 691; letters to: Burch, 607–
608, Clinch, 550, Humphreys, 601–
603, Maury, 481–482, 768–769, 844,
Sec. State, 456–457, 499, 560–563,
598, 663–664, 665–666, 843–844, Sec.
War, 556–560, 576–577, 597–598,
606–607, 626–628, 670–672; letters
to, from: Clinch, 551, Fenwick, 483,
Humphreys, 628, 672–674, Maury,
514, 792, Sec. War, 554, 654–655,
691–692, Thornton, 482, Wright,
577–579; no friends in Washington,
768; ordered to return to Pensacola
from St. Augustine, 848: pays: expense
of Morris re arrest of Doyle, 597,
Humphreys sum to cover Indian
expenses for one quarter, 671, Morris
and Richards with pub. funds, 598,
Wright for services at St. Marks, 607;
query by, re: foºd. copy exec. proceeds.
to Pres., 666, refund of sums paid
out, 607; recommends: Connor as
survr. customs, 499, Fry for legis.
council, 682, open. Pensacola-St.
Augustine rq., 606–607, 634, perm.
seat of govt., 666, Rua and Noriega
for legis. council, 490, St. Marks as
seat of Indian agcy., 598, T. White
For identical names, see index note, p. 988



I N DE X
1119
as U. S. marshal, 957 n., regrets
DuVal’s absence, 562; reports by, re:
absence of govr., 601, affairs in
W. Fla., 560–563, 663–664, 665–666,
Indian affairs, 556–560, 597–598,
670–671; reports to: by Wright, 577–
579, re Indian affairs, 672–674;
requests: added compens. for Connor
as clk., exec. ct., 499, aid of Maury
in settle. of accts., 768–769, bal.
remitted in check on New Orleans,
769, Burch to make estimate of cost
to open Pensacola-St. Augustine rq.,
608, Clinch to turn unused pub.
blågs. to civil author., 556–557, use
of pub. blags. for civil author., 550;
requires use of govt. house, 600;
salary: appeals to Pres. to approve
extra, 481, 482, charge for disburse.
pub. money, 768, charge on dis-
bursements disallowed, 792, denied
as act. supt. Indians, 691, desires,
for clk. re status of act. Supt. Indians,
627, first pay, 413 n., negots. bill on
Sec. State with Nisbet and Co., 562,
query re, 457; sends: accts. re funds
held, 768–769, act legis. council to
Sec. State, 599, power of atty. for
Nisbet to Maury, 517, Sec. War,
Wright's rept. re Indians at St.
Marks, 576; serves as govr. in
DuVal's absence, 534, 536, 538, 540,
550; signs procl., 855; tenure, 413;
treaty conf. with Indians: arranges
supplies at St. Marks, 576, confused
re plans of DuVal and Sec. War for,
557–559, explains to Indians reasons
for defer., 626, pub. duties and lack
of funds forbid. attend., 559; uses
room in home as office during tenure
as secy., W. Fla., 482, 664; yellow
fever: escapes, 531, family ill of, 733,
office removed to country during,
664, one of last Amer. inhabs. to
leave Pensacola during epidemic, 561,
removes family to country, 557.
Walton, Secretary and Acting Governor
George (W. Fla. during temp. govt.),
accepts appt., 44 n.; accounts: instrs.
to render re temp. govt., 437, need
of compens. and funds, 299, renders,
481–482; acts against Innerarity,
348; advises Fry to file acct. for
services as private secy., 478; Alba
secy. to, 475; appd. and comma.:
act. govr., 230, secy., 43–44, 51, 55,
158 m.; arrival at seat of govt.,
E. Fla., 164; believes: Adams cannot
be elected Pres., 298, Crawford poor
cand. for Pres., 299, only author.
of act. govr. re Indians is to explain
Jackson's talk, 305; consults Bracken-
ridge on action re Indian messages,
305; continues in office until further
orders, 369; contrasts position as
act. govr., W. Fla., with Jackson's,
481; corresp. with Jackson to be
sent to Sec. State, 368; date of
begin. office, 457 n., did not follow
Jackson's instrs. strictly, 404; exer-
cises no command of troops, 385;
given powers of Span. govrs., 237,
238; house of: bill for rent, 483,
for occupancy of family, 293, query
re rent, 457; imprisons Span. officers
who return to Pensacola, 347 n.,
instrs. to: as act. govr., W. Fla.,
230–231, re disposal of repts. from
E. Fla., 231, re retention of land
papers, 231; intermediary in Callava-
Jackson case, 187—188; Jackson ex-
presses confid. in, 277; letters ment.
to Jackson, 276, 369, 403; letters to:
Jackson, 259–260, 298–299, 304–306,
348, Sec. State, 292–293, 265, 403–
404; letters to, from: Jackson, 229–
231, Maury, 437, Sec. State, 369;
mentions admiralty case, 259; notified
of appt., 44 m.; opinion re: Forbes,
298, Fromentin, 306; queries by, re:
amt. salary attached to office, 293,
author. over Indians taken by
Worthington, 305, right to hear jud.
cases, 259, reason for Call's trip to
New Orleans, 306; recs. news of
Jackson's resig., 404; recoma. as
terr. secy., 4–5, 56; record of father
in Amer. Rev., 299; regrets Jackson's
inability to visit St. Augustine, 298;
repts. by, to: Jackson re affairs in
W. Fla., 259, 298–299, 305–306,
347–348, Sec. State re affairs in
W. Fla., 265, 292–293; requests
allow. for rent of house, 293; salary:
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1120
I N DE X
pd. as secy. and act. govr., 413 n.,
457 n., underpaid during temp.
govt., 535; sends to Jackson, corresp.
from Worthington, 304; serves as
govr. during Jackson's absence, 238,
265; signs comm., 227; son of signer
of Decl. of Indep., 55; succeeds
Call, 139 n.; tenure, 44; to inform
Indians he acts for Jackson, 305;
urges Jackson to promote candidacy
as Pres., 298–299; Villiers and
Guillemard: explains arrest and con-
expected, 679, rumored, 679; sal. pd.
as land commr., 630. See also Over-
ton, Samuel R.
Ware, Nathaniel A., and Overton, ack.
receipt of comms. as land commrs.,
484; conting. expenses pd. to, 631;
exten. of time requested to complete
work, 581; hold session of land
commrs., 623; letters to: Barbour, 563–
565, Pres., 514–515, Sec. State, 484–
485, 516, 552–553; recoma. White as
land commr., 515. See also Land
fine. of, 404–405, informs Jackson re Commissioners.
detention of, 369, let. ment. from | Ware, Sen. Nicholas, of Ga., recomas.:
Sec. State re, 368, surprised at | N. Ware as land commr., 429 n.,
criticism in memorial of, 404. Penn as U. S. marshal, 640 n.
Walton, George, Sr., signer Dec. Warfield, Rep. Henry R., of Md.,
Indep., 5. recomas. Worthington for office, 35 n.
Walton, John, pilot for the bar and Warner, John, owns quarter interest in
harbor of St. Augustine, 360. Thompson's Island (Key West), 386
Wanton, Edmund M., Indian dept. n.; U. S. commercial agt., Havana,
stores left in charge of, 409, 533; in- || 386.
fluence among Indians, 213; let. re Warren, John, grand juror, 797, 960;
Seminole condition sent to Sec. War, signer, 565.
219 n.; resid. of, 409. Warren, W., of Ky., recomds. Bradford
Wanton, Edmund M., and Dexter, ar- as land commr., 718 n.
rest ordered, 205; form settlement in Washburn, Lt. Samuel, death of, 197;
Alachua plains, 208; hold unauthd.
conf. with Seminoles, 205, 206, 209;
offer to prospective settlers on Arre-
dondo grant, 213; rept. re operations
respect. lands and Indian conf., 212–
213; send Bell minutes of conf. with
Seminoles, 221 n.; talk with Indians
sent to Jackson, 205, 209. See also
Dexter, Horatio S., and Wanton.
Ward, Elijay, signer, 322.
Ward, Joseph, petit juror, 611.
orders re repair of fort at St. Au-
gustine, 125; receipts for invoices of
ports and pub. blogs., E. Fla., 169.
Wa-cissa-talofa, Indian settle. w. of,
463.
Washington (D. C.), auths. to be con-
sulted re disposal of archs., 345;
Bronaugh to bear Jackson's papers
to, 298; comms. issued from: Bell as
Indian agt., 223, Bird as U. S. atty.,
50, Blair as judge, 954, Blair and
Davis as land commrs., 806, Bracken-
ridge as judge, 451, 955, Butler as
surv. genl., 943, DuVal as govr., 470,
DuVal as judge, 43, Forbes as U. S.
marshal, 46, Hamilton as U. S. atty.,
414, Hanson as U. S. marshal, 957 n.,
Humphreys as Indian agt., 430, Jack-
son as commr. to occupy Fla., 9,
Jackson as govr., 10–11, 19, land
commrs., 429, 656, Luckett as land
commr., 850, Macon as U. S. atty.,
680, 806, members legis. council, 423,
641, 913, Murray as land commr.,
958, Sebree as U. S. marshal, 591,
Ware, Nathaniel A., absent from duty as
land commr., 679; appd. and comma.
land commr., 428–429; believes State
Dept. to hold treaties relevant to
lands, 455; former secy. Miss. Terr.,
429 n.; illness in family, 679; in Miss.,
679; let. ment. to Sec. War, 455; let-
ters to: Hernandez (ext.), 619–620,
Sec. War, 455–456; recomd.: as land
commr., 429 n., for office, 3 n.; rec-
omds. law estab. add. bq. land
commrs., 619–620; requests copies of
treaties and other docs. re Fla. lands,
455-456; resig.: as land commr., 717,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N D E X
1121
J. L. Smith as judge, 417, 956, W.
Smith as U. S. marshal, 640, Steele
as U. S. atty., 590, Walton as secy.,
W. Fla., 44, Walton as secy. Fla.
Terr., 413, White as land commr.,
712, 809, Worthington as secy., E.
Fla., 45, Wright as U. S. atty., 956;
conf. of Pres, and Worthington at,
239; Cross sails from St. Augustine
for, 125; docs. re transf. E. Fla. sent
to, 116; DuVal leaves, prior to Smith's
appt. as judge, 555; DuVal's friends
in, recoma. him as govr., 371; Forbes
unable to visit, 595; Fromentin
changes plan to visit, 347; Gaines
detained at, from new duties, 31, 32;
Hanham unable to visit, 777; Indians
wish to visit, 211; mail from, expected
at Fernandina, 47; ment., 5, 6,
69, 77, 138, 145, 192, 239, 240, 331,
349, 350, 365, 375, 461, 503, 576, 688,
707, 776, 821, 972; Murray presumed
on visit to, 460, 461; opponents of
Steele in, 864, 865, 870, 873, 874;
order for troop transf. to Tampa Bay
issued from, 843; papers fund. to, in
defense of Steele, 871; passengers
from, on Enterprise, 631; proceeds. re
depreds. on timber lands to be re-
ferred to, 376; salary of Indian agt.
pd. at, 671; Seminole visit: approved,
939, chiefs desire, 904, 922, Hum-
phreys ordered to lead, 964; Steele
awaits advice from, 979; treaty of
1819 concluded at, 9, 18, 34, 104, 111,
426; visited by: Allen, 917, Bell and
DuVal, 328, Bronaugh and DuVal,
543, DuVal, 4 n., 647, Forbes and
Law, 668, Murray, 493; Walton not
acquainted in, 768; Worthington con-
fers with Sec. State at, 506.
Washington, Gen. George, 56.
Washington, Henry, applies for appt. as
survr., 943 n.
Waterbury, Ebenezer, signer, 323.
Waterbury, William, signer, 321.
Waters, Levi, petit juror, 613 n., 614 n.;
witness, 614 n.
Watson, Daniel, petit juror, 612, 613 n.;
signer, 289, 323; witness, 614 n.
Watson, George, signer, 321.
Watson, William C., of Ga., recoma. for
appt. as U. S. marshal, 46 n.
Watson, Lt. Commd. William H., de-
tains English wreckers, 707.
Watts, Joseph B., petit juror, 935.
Waw-ka-sau-sa, Indian settle., 463.
Weactman, Philip, takes naturaliz. oath,
434.
Weakley, Robert, recomas. Hayes as
judge, 43 n.
Weather, causes flood conditions, 471.
Weatherby, Calvin, signer, 477.
Webb, Bridger, signer, 323.
Webb, David, recomas. Long as survir.
pub. lands, 943 n.
Webb, James B., grand juror, 936.
Webb, James, of Ga., solicits appt. as
U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 414 n.
Webster, Rep. Daniel, of Mass., de-
nounces act legis. council re wreckers,
815 n.
Weightman, Dr. Richard, repts. official
mail recd. by Span. govr., 47; signer,
985.
Welch, William, signer, 288.
Wellman, Henry, takes naturaliz. oath,
435.
Wells, Thomas F., recoma. as U.S. atty.,
4 n.; solicits appt. as dist. atty., 50 n.
Wells, Lt. William, ordered from St.
Augustine to Pittsburgh, 125.
West, John, signer, 287.
West, William N., signer, 323.
West Florida (occupancy and temp.
admin.), appt. secy. of, 43–44, 98;
boundaries: for appointive purposes,
43, 51, original Span., 55, restricted,
55; Call actg. secy. of, 39 m.; disap-
pears as sep. entity except for jud.
purposes, 389, 392; estab. customs
distrs. in, 7, 51, 55; exchange of flags,
124; Jackson appa. and comma. to
take possession of, 8–9; loc. of
sources re affairs in (1821), 306 n.;
Mahy's let. ment. to Callava, 337;
majority of inhabs. U. S. in origin,
151; names of signers to memorial,
321-323; names of signers to petitions,
314–315; negots. discussed re removal
Span. troops from, 11–12; ordinances
for: date of completion, 157, date of
promulg., 156–157, line of demarc.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
301867–57–72



1122 I N DE X
“with E. Fla. found in, 157 n., names | wide area, 788; lacks court house and
of signers of recomma., 287–290;
* payt. for transp. Span. troops from,
119–120; Pres. appts. Jackson to take
possession of, 8–9; removal of ord-
nance by Span. discussed, 75–77; seat
‘‘ of jud. dist. at Pensacola, 51; separate
military dist. from E. Fla., 21 n.;
Span. archs.: discussed, 36–37, dis-
posal discussed, 152, possession dis-
cussed, 93–94, 97, survey papers taken
to Havana, 94 (see also under Ar-
chives); turmoil re Jackson-Callava
affair quieted, 265; transfer to U. S.:
alcalde only official remain. on date of,
168, arts. of agree., 122–124, date
fixed for, 147, date of, 135, dilatory
measures of Mahy in arranging, 100,
discussed, 148, Jackson begins negots.
with Callava for, 74, ment., 11, 113,
negots., 90, 144–146, plan for, 14 n.,
Jackson's repts. re, 137–154, 156–163,
“note on docs. re, 154, prelim. discus-
sion re, 78; procl. by govr.: discussed,
230–231, text, 110–111; weather con-
ditions, 119, 142, 146, 166.
West Florida District, appts. in: Brack-
enridge as judge, 451, Davidson as
U.S. marshal, 781 n., no dep. marshal,
214, Robinson as U. S. marshal, 505,
Sebree as U. S. marshal, 590–591,
647–648, Steele as U. S. atty., 589–
590, U. S. atty., 447 n., White as
U. S. atty. in, 781, White as U. S.
marshal, 781 n.; Call recomd. as
brig. genl. militia, 529; char. of suits
prosecuted in, by U. S. atty., 738;
dispute betw. sup. ct. judge and U. S.
atty., 860–862; grand jury present.:
citing need of funds for court ex-
penses, 789, discussed, 447–448, re
adjust. land titles, 789–790, re duties
justice of peace, 790, re improve.
internal navig. of rivers, 789, re
need of approp. for jail, 788–789;
hostile inroads could be checked at
Pensacola, 527; Humphreys assigned
jail, 770, 787–788; members legis.
council: comms. sent to Walton, 641
n., poll of inhabs. taken re recomds.
for, 803—804; more polling places than
in E. Fla., 544–545; need for dist.
court house, 676–677; no term of
!pst. ct. since terr. organ., 594; one
U. S. marshal provided for, 394; sal.
pd. U. S. atty.,631; sup. ct, estab. in,
392; timber depreds. in: discussed,
809–810, rept. on, 699–701; U. S.
atty. provided for, 394.
West Florida Land District, adjud. land
claims to be held at Pensacola, 424,
428 n.; commissioners: appt. of, 808–
809, cannot complete task in time set
by law, 563, 580, desire list of prop-
erties delivered to U. S., 772, first
bd. appd. to act exclusively for, 636,
inability to proceed, 718, to continue
beyond date of legal closing, 678-679,
unable to complete work at early
date, 847, White appd., 711–712;
exten. of time for adjud. of land
titles in, 718 n.; land claims in, 426;
land office to be estab. in, 628; ment-,
946; pub. property covered by private
claims, 983; right of Brit. subjects to
dispose of claims after cession to
Spain, 399; twp. reserved for seminary
of learning, 638.
West Florida Province (Span.), defenses
of 1818, 42 n.; govt. differed from E.
Fla. govt., 620–621; inhabs. exempt
from taxation, 621; land grants dis-
cussed, 580; proofs of power of govts.
re land grants needed by U. S.
commrs., 785.
West Indian Squadron, small vessels
from, urged to cruise along w. coast
Fla., 796.
West Indian station, naval vessels from,
to visit Tamps Bay, 817.
West Indies, in rel. to Key West, 853;
products believed destined for Key
West for re-ship., 716.
to duty with Indians of, 681; inhabs. | West Point Military Academy, 304.
E. Fla. protest union with, 570; We-then-cuchy-talofa, Indian settle.,
: inhabs.: fewer than in E. Fla., 407, 464.
oppose tax law, 624–625, recomd. | Whalton, John, signer, 450, facing 702,
* King’ as govr., 469 n., scattered over | 858.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1123
Whalton, J., signer, facing 702, 858.
Wharten, John, signer, 367.
Wheaton's Reports, recd. by Bracken-
ridge, 648; sent to Smith, 592.
Wheeler, John, signer, 287, 323.
Wheeler, Thomas L., signer, 289.
Whiskey, allow. for soldiers working on
rd., 608.
White, Enrique, Span. govr. E. Fla.,
land grants ment., 580; reduces amt.
free land granted to aliens, 621.
White, Francis, signer, 322.
White, Hugh L., of Tenn., appd. commr.
re claims against Spain, 8 n., 56.
White, John, petit juror, 611, 614 n.
White, Josep, signer, 298.
White, Joseph M., adjt. genl. militia,
signs gen. orders, 659; atty. for Cou-
lons and Grand-Pré, 874, 888; certif.
of sig. as atty. for defends., 897; dis-
approves appts. to legis. council, 833;
fees and salary due to, 738–739; has
certified copies of orig. land titles be-
lieved forgeries, 517; in alleged
combin. against Steele, 977; know. of
Span. law and customs, 515; land
commr.: acks. appt. as, 712 n., 808 n.,
appd. and commó., 711–712, 718,
808–809, recomd. as, 515,679,718, so-
licits appt. as, 406, tenure, 712; let.
ment. to Johnson, 807; letters to: An-
derson, 781, Maury, 737-738, Pleas-
anton, 594-595, Pres., 406, 832–833,
Sec. State, 516–517; member legis.
council: accepts appt., 406, appd. and
comma., 423, defends act re wreckers,
815 n., postpones resig., 537, rec-
ommd., 803, resigns, 489, retains
seat till end of sess., 489 n., 537, sal.
pd., 630, special recoma., 804, tenure,
423; note re, 406; offers to go to
Havana in title search, 517; opinion |
know cause of protest, 594, draft not
pd. due to lack of approp., 595 n.,
draft pd., 595 n., draws bill on Sec.
Treas., 594; secy. of land commrs.:
appd., 489, 515, 594, employs assts.,
594, let. ment. to Hernandez, 620,
recomds. appt. of recorder and trans-
lator for St. Augustine reland claims,
620; signer, 529; signs joint letters,
846, 983, 984; U. S. atty. (W. Fla.
dist.): acts as, 652, appd. pro tem, 594,
737, 739, believes entitled to higher
fees, 781, cand. for appt., 414 n.,
compens. for service as, 652–653,
Cong. act passed allow. compens. to,
781 n., detailed acct., 738–789, foºds.
accts. to Maury for settle, 781, justi-
fies charges for services, 737-738,
requests settle. of acct., 807, succeeds
Harrison, 738, 739. See also Overton,
Samuel R., and White.
White, Thomas K., recoma. as U. S.
marshal, 957.
Whitehead, John, agt. of proprietor of
Thompson's Island (Key West), 386.
Whitehead, William, owns quarter in-
terest in Thompson's Island, 386.
Whiteside, J., of Tenn., recomas. Hayes
as judge, 43 n.
Whitman, Rep. Ezekiel, of Me., calls for
submission of Jackson's papers to
Cong., 350–351; disapproves of Jack-
son's policy in Fla. 350; resol. ment.
request. docs. re Jackson-Callava be
sent to Cong., 368.
Whitman, William, signer, 322.
Whitney, Jason, petit juror, 610, 613 n.;
signer, 287.
Wick, William W., of Ind., recoma. as
judge, W. Fla. 317 n.
Wickes, Isaac, appa. member bq. of
pilotage, St. Augustine, 121.
Wickes, Henry, petit juror, 962.
Wickliffe, Robert, of Ky., recomas.
Blair as judge, 43 n.
Wild Cat, U.S. schooner, arrives at Key
West, 776; to bear field piece to Key
Vaca, 713.
Wilds (Wiles), Nathanel (Nathaniel),
grand juror, 822.
Wilison (Wilkerson?), Peter, signer, 298.
Wilkes, Isaac, signer, 762.
re Seminole rels., 534 n.; opposes appt.
of Fry to office, 832–833; plea as
atty. for Coulons brothers, 890; plea
for release of Coulons brothers with-
out bail, 892; reasons for removal to
Fla., 406; recomd. as trustworthy
lawyer, 877; recomas.: Davison as
U. S. marshal, 591 n., replacing Gov.
DuVal, 715 m., Williams as land
commr., 850 n.; salary: desires to
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988
301867–57–73



1124
I N DE X
Wilkeson (Wilison; Wilkerson; Wilkin-
son), Peter, grand juror, 614 n., 888;
signer, 323, 893.
Willa-noucha-talofa, Indian settle., 463.
William, a slave, 324.
William and Henry, a brig, chartered
to carry troops to Tampa Bay, 835.
Williams, David, grand juror, 896.
Williams, Rep. Jared, of Va., recomas.
Murray as U. S. Atty. (E. Fla. dist.),
414 n.
Williams, John, petit juror, 937; witness,
937 n.
Williams, Sen. John, of Tenn., recomils.:
Flournoy as govr., 10 n., Overton as
land commr., 428 m.
Williams, John Lee, of W. Fla. dist.,
appd. commr. to recoma. site terr.
govt., 854 n.; atty. for Riley, motion
for discharge ansd., 878–882; bond of
Reilly and Keyser delivered before,
884; charges by, against Steele, 863
n., 910–912, 977; fails of appt. to
legis. council, 833; given time to prove
charges against Steele, 974; in alleged
combine against Steele, 977, 978;
journal of, publd., 855 m.; justice of
peace, 874; let. to Sec. State, 910–912;
member Pensacola bar, 861; nomin.
to legis. council by popul. elec., 833;
prosec. of: by Steele ment., 978, for
assault, 874, for perjury, 874; prosec.
of Steele in ct. of, 898, 899; recoma.:
as land commr., 850 n., as trust-
worthy lawyer, 877, for legis. council,
803; record of, 833; signer, 318, 323;
signs order disbarring Steele, 973 n.;
Steele critical of, 861; witness, 614 n.
Williams, John Lee, and Mitchell, testi-
mony in Gerrish assault case taken
before, as justices of peace, 886.
Williams, Lewelling, grand juror, 822;
signer, 814, 817.
Williams, Rep. Lewis, of N. C., recomds.
Branch as govr., 10 n.
Williams, Owen, petit juror, 937; wit-
ness, 937 n.
Williams, Samuel, signer, 289.
Williams, Sen. Thomas H., of Miss.,
let. ment. to, re roads, 642; recomds.
Overton as land commr., 428 n.; re-
quests Sec. Treas. to fund. Ware's
comm. with relevant docs. to Pen-
sacola, 455. See also Rankin, Rep.
Christopher.
Williamson, James, and Shearman, case
against, by U. S., 66 n.
Williamson, Nathan, grand juror, 936.
Williamson, Dr. Thomas, navy surgeon,
leaves for Norfolk with sick seamen,
776, 781; recomds. removal of sick
personnel to Norfolk, 776.
Willis, Byrd C., appd. clk. co. ct., 134.
Willis, Maj. Perrin, 240; appt. solicited
for, 225; jobless because of reduc. of
army, 225; non-arrival of, 195; recoma.
as prosec. atty., St. Johns Co., 195.
Willman, Henry, petit juror, 963.
Wills, papers re execu. of, proposed to be
left in St. Augustine, 105.
Wilson, Augustus H., of Ga., solicits
post of coll. of customs, Pensacola,
52 n.
Wilson, George, signer, 289, 322.
Wilson, Henry, recomd. as council mem-
ber, 490; signer, 322.
Wilson, John L., of S. C., solicits appt.
as: coll. of customs, Pensacola, 52 n.,
dist. atty., 50 n.
Wilson, Joseph, of N. C., recomd. as
judge, W. Fla., 317 n.
Wilson, Joseph, signer, 477.
Wilson, Louis, signer, 323.
Wilson, P., certifies copy Porter's let.,
707.
Wilson, Reubin, petit juror, 614 n.
Wilson, Maj. William, illness of, 628;
orders return of the Amelia to Pensa-
cola, 628; rejects request to house
civil prisoners, 788; signer, 322.
Wilson, —, appd. j. p., Pensacola, 132.
Windham, Robert, grand juror, 613 n.
Winder, Gen. William Henry, ment.
re Allen's applic. for appt., 917 n.,
to receive Fromentin's pay, 347 m.
Wingat, (Wingit), Isac, signer, 813, 816.
Wingat, Jeramiah, signer, 813, 816.
Wingat, Joel, signer, 818, 816.
Wingat, John, signer, 813, 816.
Withlacoochee (Withlacouchy) River
(Creek), hummocks present at, 969;
negro settlements at, 969. See also
Amaxura River.
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1125
Witnesses, list of, before grand juries,
614 n.
Wood, Silas, grand juror, 936.
Woodruff, Maj. Joseph, case against,
by U.S., 66 n.
Woods, Benjamin, signer, 814, 816.
Woods, Francis, signer, 814, 816.
Woods, Samuel, signer, 814, 816.
Woods, William, signer, 814, 816.
Woodson, Rep. Samuel H., of Ky.,
recomás.: DuVal as govr., 372 n.,
Luckett as land commr., 849 n.
Woodward, Judge Augustus B., appd.
sup. judge, E. Fla. Dist., 986 n.;
recomds. McRee as U.S. atty., 956 n.
Woodward, William, signer, 288.
Wormely, Hugh Wallace, of Miss.,
solicits appt. as dist. atty., 50 n.
Worthington, William G. D., Secy. and
Act. Govr. E. Fla., 355; absence
of: Bell acts for, 166, irks Jackson,
157–158; act. Supt. Indian affairs,
E. Fla.: believes Indians should be
removed to Creek nation, 328, con-
sidered as, 277, 280, ex officio Indian
agt., 250, Indian rels. under, 329 n.,
left no instrs. re Indian policy, 495,
places all avail. inform. in Pelham's
hands re Indian rels., 327–328,
query re source of funds, 294, talks
with Indians, 194, to serve as, 263,
Walton concerned re action in
assuming author. of, 305; admin.
approved by Jackson, 272; adopts
separation of powers principle, 191;
advises delay in collect. taxes for
support St. Augustine, 265–266; appt.:
accepts as secy., E. Fla., 45 n., by
Pres., 345, land commr., 486 n., 958
n., sec. and act. govr., E. Fla., 3 n.,
35 n., 51, 55, 91, 104–105, 175, 180,
353, solicits, 35 n., U. S. marshal, E.
Fla. dist., 486 m.; appts. by: comms.
to exam. archs., 575, discussed, 194,
195, 646–647, Gaither dist., atty.,
356, ment., 197, Murray judge St.
Johns Co. ct., 460, 461; arrival at
St. Augustine, 171; assumes respon-
sib. for prevent. timber depreds.,
376; authority: as act. govr., 104,
from Jackson to act with powers of
Span. govr., E. Fla., 99,237, to appt.
clk. of terr. ct., E. Fla., 284, to re-
quire troops to enforce laws, 225;
believes: elec. as terr. delegate probable
had he remained in Fla., 506, exec.
powers contd. until succeeded in
fact by officials of new govt., 440,
441–444, Fla. unhealthy for white
people, 330; Bell's acts prior to arrival
of, 268; Bell appd. act. govr. pending
arrival of, 345; case of McHardy v.
Saavedra: argued before, 437-439,
jud. order re, 440, suspends action
in, 438, 440; clothed with power as
act. govr., 180; comm. as secy. and
act. govr.: delivered to, 177, restricted,
266, sent to, 45 n., 146, sent to Bell,
114; comm. as U. S. marshal, E. Fla.;
awaits in St. Augustine for receipt
of, 500, fuvd. to Smith, 506 n., held by
Smith, 500; continued in office after
Jackson's resig., 381; corr. with:
Coppinger sent to Sec. State, 418,
Eustis sent to city council, 223,
Jackson to be sent to Sec. State,
368, Walton sent to Jackson, 304;
date of: arrival in St. Augustine, 175,
180, 181, 209 n., assuming office, 175,
193, embark. at Baltimore, 180;
declines: appt. as land commr.,
486 n., 958 n., appt. as U. S. marshal,
506, to arrest Ugarte, 302 n., to
preside over city council, 191, to
publ. decree forbid. imprison. for
debt, 400, to solicit recomds. for any
future appt., 383; decree of: cancelled,
421 n., forbid. imprison. for debt,
400–401, re meet. of St. Johns Co.
ct., 420–421; desires: appt. of new
Indian agt., 240–241, orders re
papers to be returned to Coppinger,
334; discontinues services of Reyn-
olds, 354, 355; discusses: E. Fla.
situation, 195, efforts to stop timber
depreds., 383, fate under new terr.
govt., 328, 330, lack of space for
civil offices, 190–191, reason for not
attend. Seminole conf., 280, status
during transition to new terr. govt.,
438–439; dislikes climate, 241; dis-
pute with military power: discussed,
181–182, 190–191, 195–196, 197, 215–
217, ends, re use of govt. houses,
For identical names, see indea: mote, p. 988



1126
I N DE X
Forbes, 374, 376, 377, 500, Jackson,
157, 192, 193, 195, 225, 238, 241,
249, 298, 301, 335, 340, 375, 418–
419, Maury, 518, mayor, St. Augus-
tine, 249, Rodman, 442, Sec. State,
106, 192, 249, 272, 279, 301, 331,
368, 375, 377, 382, 419, 432, 506,
646, Sec. War, 190, 195, 241, 249,
263, 280, 294, 328, 329 n., 410;
letters to: Bell, 222, 277, city council,
St. Augustine, 190–192, 223, 331–
332, Drysdale and Rodman, 440–
442, DuVal, 447, Eustis, 214, 217,
273, Forbes, 375–376, 377, Jackson,
193–196, 228–229, 238–241, 364–366,
Maury, 518–514,520,646–647, Mayor
St. Augustine, 265–267, St. Johns
Co. ct., 421–422, Sec. State, 180,
192–193, 247–248, 272, 301–302, 329–
330, 333–334, 353–354, 374–375, 379,
381–383, 400, 418–419, 431–432, 437–
439, 500, 506—507, 592–594, Sec.
War, 181–182, 249–250, 280, 294,
327–329; letters to, from: Bell, 177–
180, 215–217, Brent, 106–107, Drys-
dale, 444–446, Eustis, 218, 273–
274, Forbes, 227–228, 376, 384, 419,
Jackson, 91–92, 133–135, 167–168,
209–210, 225–226, Law, 420, Rodman,
442–444, Sec. State, 279, 368–369,
Sec. War, 263—264; loses member
of family from yellow fever, 240;
makes changes in jud. dept., 383;
nativity, 355; naturalization: brings
ordinance re, to council meeting,
193, pub. notice re, discussed, 431,
pub. notice (text) re, 432–433, rept.
re, 431–433, signs list of persons
taking oath of, 435; non-arrival in
St. Augustine, 113, 124, 125, 169;
note re, 35; offers Jackson aid in
securing living quarters on east
coast Fla., 365; official docs. delivered
to, 177–178; opinion of Gay, 593–
594; order by, to: Forbes discussed
re timber depreds., 383, U. S. mar-
shal, 439; ordinances sent to, 157;
organiz. of E. Fla. govt.: approved,
225, docs, re, sent to, 133–134,
rept. to Jackson, 193–196; plans to
offer bonds in Baltimore as U. S.
marshal, E. Fla. dist., 488; possible
272-273, Eustis ordered to deliver
pub. blógs, to, 732, further corresp.
with Bell and Eustis declined, 222,
protests system in St. Augustine,
217, query re juris. over govt. house,
190, repts. continued, 241, re pub.
blags. laid before Sec. State, 249,
threatens appeal to Pres. re, 217,
threatens milit. author., 246, with
Bell and Eustis, 245–246; docs.
transfol. to, by Bell, 177–178; duties
performed by Bell, 114; exercises no
command of troops, 385; expenses:
accts. of, 380, accts. sent to Sec.
State, 379, accts. unsettled, 513–514,
draws on Sec. State, 334, incurred
in reach. St. Augustine and prior to
moving to govt. house, 380, incurred
in repair. govt. house, 380; farewell
address to citizens E. Fla. ment.,
447 n., gives oath to Fitch as judge,
194; government house: assigns space
to Mayor Forbes in, 500, informs
Eustis of intent to occupy, 273,
occupied by, 331, 332, query to
DuVal re dispos. of papers in, 447,
removes to, 301, requires, for civil
govt., 245; governs without regard
to factions, 334; has no official word
of Jackson's resig., 334; informs:
DuVal of signing requis. for rations
for Tampa Indians, 447, Jackson
of reorgan. of E. Fla. govt., 365;
in need of funds, 241, 301, 334;
instrs. by, to co. ct. (St. Johns) re
jury trials, 421–422; instrs. to: from
Jackson, 209, ment., 91–92, 168 n.,
sent to, 146, to fix bounds, St. Au-
gustine, 134, to pay bal. of Indian
funds to Pelham, 453–454, to proceed
to St. Augustine, 45 m., to seize
Dexter and Wanton, 205, to send
to Sec. State certified copies of lets. re
transf. archs., 335; lacks housing
and other facilities, 241; last official
act, 447; leaves blank comm. for
deputy, 500; leaves St. Augustine
for Baltimore, 483, 486, 500, 567;
letters ment. to: Bell, 249, 298, city
council (St. Augustine), 227, 331,
Drysdale and Rodman, 444, DuVal,
567, Eustis, 218, 222, 228, 249, 272,
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



I N DE X 1127
retire. ment., 500; powers of, 91–92;
practices law after resig., 514; pre-
pares for end of admin., 418–419;
presides at last meeting of old St.
Augustine council, 198; private let.
delivered to, 178; procl. ment. re:
health conds., 247, 248, Seminole
Indian conf., 280; query by, re
resid., 181–182; recalls Hudnall's
comm. as j. p., 359; recomá. for:
office, 35–36, terr. secy., 413 n.;
recomas.: appt. land commrs. of
integrity, 383, Bell as Indian agt.,
181, 241, 249, city council to retain
offices, 223, 331, Gaither as member
bd. land commrs., 284, Gaither as
U. S. atty. (E. Fla. dist.), 414 n.,
head of Tampa Bay or place n. of
Alachua as site terr. govt., 381,
law confining wreckers to Amer.
vessels, 377, members legis. council,
423 n., Murray as member legis.
council, 423 n., W. Smith as dep.
marshal, 500, trial of coll. one tax,
267, U. S. possess. Key West, 383;
rels. with Coppinger, 240, 247;
reorgan. bq. of aldermen by, 331;
repts. by: E. Fla. quiet, 374, illegal
cut. of timbers on pub. lands, 375–
376, Indians tranquil, 250, re Gay's
service, 592–594, to Jackson re
appts. and gen. conditions in E.
Fla., 193–196, to Sec. State, re
affairs E. Fla., 247–248, 329–330,
333–334, to Sec. War re affairs in
E. Fla., 327–329; repts. to, re: pub.
property in St. Augustine, 200–205,
timber depreds., 384; requests city
council to evaluate pub. property,
190, 200; resigns as U. S. marshal,
486 n.; Reynolds private secy. to,
415; sails from Charleston for St.
Augustine, 169; salary: advance,
107, amount, 107, amt. due, 380,
date of beginning, 107, recd. no fees,
355; sends: copy of let. to Jackson
to Sec. State, 192, corresp. to Sec.
State as found in files, 418, Eustis'
let. from city council, 217, Forbes to
Black and St. Johns rivers, 596,
list of papers fud. to Sec. State,
248–249, papers re tax bills and fin.
crisis to Sec. State, 301, printed
copies of Jackson's ordinances to
Sec. State, 192, printed copies of
ordinances to Jackson, 196, Sec.
State accts. of commrs. and clks.
in case of archs., 802, Sec. State
decree forbid. imprison. for debt,
490, Sec. State let. to city council,
330, Sec. War draft of talk and
prelim. arts. treaty for Seminole,
294; signer, 349, 401; signs receipt
for docs. delivered by Bell, 178;
Span. archives: appts. comm. to seize
and exam., 667, Bell repts. status
of, 346, certifies service of Bell,
Forbes and Law re seizure and exam.
of, 674, delivered to Law, 687,
examd. by order of, 903, fuvds. papers
re seizure to Sec. State, 365, fyds.
to Jackson all papers available re,
365, lets. re appt. comm., evid. of
service, 668, no inform. re, prior to
coming to St. Augustine, 365, orders
seizure, 239, 657, seized from house
of Coppinger, 574, state. re seizure
sent to Kent and Rodney, 365,
takes step to preserve, 340; special
agt. to S. Amer., 35 n., 55–56;
suspends coll. taxes, 482; tenure, 45,
369; text of decree forbid. imprison.
for debt, 400–401; to give Pénières’
papers to Bell, 264; to lay issue of
taxes before Jackson for decision,
transfers pub. property to Forbes,
483; urged to move St. Augustine
hospital, 219; warns govt. re land
speculs., 328, 330. -
Wrecked ships, act discussed requiring
cargo to be taken to U. S. port of
entry, 814 n.; no U. S. law governs
disposal of cargo, 723; property to
await legal process in St. Augustine,
723.
Wreckers, act discussed requir. wrecked
goods be brought to Amer. port of
entry, 814 n.; center at Fla. Keys, 295,
706; cruise near Key Waca, 852;
English, from Bahamas: along south
coast, 377, locus of operations, 382,
operations in Fla. Keys described,
684–685; from Providence . Island,
carry slaves to the Bahamas, 745;
For identical names, see indez note, p. 988



1128 I N DE X
injure U. S. revenue, 685; law needed
to prevent Great Brit. and Span.
monopoly of, 523; lucrative business
shared by U. S. citizens, 812; memorial
desig. Fernandina port of deposit for
goods rescued by, 812–813; ment.,
374; no. boats in oper., 382; opera-
tions on Fla. coast, 282; source and
resort of, 387.
Wright, Benjamin D. (T.), acks. receipt
of comm., 956, n.; appd. and comma.:
inspect. first brigade militia, 661, to
legis. council, 913, U. S. Atty. (Middle
Fla. Dist.), 956–957; comm. foºd. to,
956 n.; did not attend proceeds. re
Coulons case, 899; let. to Steele, 899;
recomma. for legis. council, 803, 859;
tenure as U. S. atty., 956; unable to
ans. Steele's queries re action of sup.
ct., 899.
Wright, David, appd. branch pilot,
Pensacola, 131.
Wright, Dwight, recoma. as branch
pilot, Pensacola, 131 n.
Wright, Rep. Robert, of Md., 350 m.;
recomds. Preston as govr., 469 m.
Wright, Maj. Thomas, bears Brooke's
let. to commanding genl., 918; believes
Indians of peaceful intent, 578; conf.
with Indians at St. Marks: acct. for
services allowed, 654, acct. pd. by
Walton, 607, arrives with talk, 597,
assembles chiefs from area near, 577,
finds principal chiefs left after date
of conf., 577, delivers talk by Walton,
577, explains to Indians why conf.
postponed, 577–578, mission ment.,
576, rept. by, re, 577–579, repts. no
hostility among, 576, storms hinder
arrival prior to, 577; let. to Walton,
577–579; recomás. discharge of Rich-
ards, 579; suit against: in dist. ct.,
66 n., 793, 959, settle. of, 959; visits
Washington, 652.
Wyatt, William, affid. of, explains use
of name “Coulons” in indict. of
Williers, 898; grand juror, 613 n.,
896; state. of ment., 910.
Wyche, Thomas J., j. p., affid. sworn
before, 877–878; member Pensacola
city council, 423 m.; recoma. as
member legis. council, 423 m.; signer,
818, 323.
Wyman, Benjamin, signer, 288, 292,
322; testimony in Gerrish assault case,
885; witness, 614 n.; witness against
Steele, 812.
Ximenez (Hymenus; Ximenes), José
(Joseph), applies to Scott for clear.
ance of vessel, 893; petit juror, 800;
signer, 367, 371, facing 702, 760,
764, 858.
Ximenez (Ximenes), Juan Baptiste,
signer, 310, 315.
Yancey, Charles, appd. dep. coll.
customs, Key West, 723; let ment. to
J. Yancey, 723.
Yancey, Joel, appd. coll. customs, Key
West, 658; applies for appt. as survi,
943 m.; date of: official oath, 687 n.,
qualif. for office and bond, 686; early
return to Key West ordered, 715–716;
informed of Dawley's death, 723; lets.
ment. to Sec. Treas., 615, 728; letters
to: Anderson, 686–687, Sec. Treas,
723–724; lets. to, from Sec. Treas.,615,
715–716, 728; nominated and con-
firmed coll. customs, Key West, 615
n.; not to return to Key West until
fall of 1823, 724; organizes collector's
office, Key West, 686; query by, re date
of: begin. salary, 686, quart. returns,
686; returns to Ky. on private busi-
ness, 686; sails for: Key West from
Cape Henry in Porter's fleet, 686,
Mobile, New Orleans and Ky., 686;
salary to begin from date of official
oath, 687 n.
Yellow fever, at Key West: abates, 728,
780, prevalence, 723, 776; at Pensa-
cola: effect of, 535, prevalence, 531,
532, 552–553, 560–561, 562, 564, 580–
581, 619, 623, 648, 664, 733, procl. re.
557–558; at St. Augustine: effect of,
307, prevalence, 240, 248, 266, 271,
272, 273–274, 300, 380, 541, 595, 617,
635, 770, proposal to lessen severity,
332, return feared, 331, subsides, 302;
causes removal of legis. council
sittings, 535; effect on: Amer. inhabs.,
561, 617, Span. inhabs., 617, terr.
For identical names, see inder mote, p. 988



I N D E X
1129
govt., 733, work of land commrs.,
563, 580; few Americans survive
attack of, 552; ment., 918; newspaper
states, brought from Havana, 532 n.;
prevalence: in E. Fla., 284, in Havana,
715, in New Orleans, 561, in terr.,
554, 646, 667, in U. S. army, 538.
Yellow Hair, chief of Chockenickla
town, attends St. Marks to meet
govr., 578; distrusts sincerity of govt.,
578; unfriendly attitude alleged, 673.
Yellow River, provisions for troops
open. rd. to be deposited at, 609.
Yellow Water River, land betw., and
St. Rosas’ Bay to be examined, 736;
ment., 737; proposed Pensacola-Ft.
Mitchell rd. betw., and Pea River,
856; to be avoided in cross. to Pensa-
cola, 736.
Yniestra, Pedro, signer, 289.
Yonge, Henry, Sr., appd. and comma.
member legis. council, 640–641; rec-
omma. for legis. council, 616; will
not attend legis. council in St.
Augustine, 682.
Youngblood, Jesse, signer, 478.
Youngblood, Robert, signer, 478.
Zully, C., agent for lot holder, 761;
signer, 350, 761.
For identical names, see inder mote, p. 988
U. 5. Gowurn MEnr PRINTing of rice 1957


















DATE DUE
Gay Lord Printed in u.s A.
-









DATE DUE
GAYLORD PRINTED in u.s A.
= -









