This file was downloaded from HathiTrust Digital Library.
Find more books at https://www.hathitrust.org.

Title:	   The Territorial papers of the United States.

Publisher: Washington, D.C. : U.S. G.P.O., 1934-

Copyright:
Public Domain, Google-digitized
http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

We have determined this work to be in the public domain, meaning that it is
not subject to copyright. Users are free to copy, use, and redistribute the
work in part or in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions of the work, such
as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights over these portions.
Depending on the nature of subsequent use that is made, additional rights
may need to be obtained independently of anything we can address. The
digital images and OCR of this work were produced by Google, Inc.
(indicated by a watermark on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests
that the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed or used
commercially. The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
non-commercial purposes.
Find this book online: https://hdl.handle.net/2027/umn.31951d02363848f

This file has been created from the computer-extracted text of scanned page
images. Computer-extracted text may have errors, such as misspellings,
unusual characters, odd spacing and line breaks.

Original from: University of Minnesota
Digitized by:  Google

Generated at Florida State University on 2021-01-30 15:26 GMT


<pb#1/>

WILS
|
|
GOVU |
|
|
|
|
S 1.36:22 |
|
|
|



<pb#2/>

THE LIBRARY
Government
Publications
Division



<pb#3/>

aw-


<pb#4/>



<pb#5/>

THE TERRITO RIAL PAPERS
OF THE UNITED STATES



<pb#6/>



<pb#7/>

U!. T. |--|-7. - * - * ... s •.
THE TERRITORIAL PAPERS
OF THE UNITED STATES
Compiled and edited by
Clarence Edwin Carter
WOLUME XXII
The Territory of Florida
1821-1824
UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON # 1956
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington 25, D.C. Price $8.25 (cloth)



<pb#8/>

PUBLICATION NO. 57–4
THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS SERVICE
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION


<pb#9/>

PREFACE
There is presented herewith Volume XXII of The Territorial Papers
of the United States containing selections from the original records in
Washington, D. C., pertaining to the Territory of Florida. It is
the first of several volumes embodying the official papers of the terri-
tory in question as found principally in the National Archives. A few
documents from the Library of Congress have also been utilized.
Their publication has been made possible by a succession of authoriz-
ing acts by the Congress approved March 2, 1925, February 28, 1929,
February 14, 1936, June 28, 1937, July 31, 1945, and July 7, 1950 (im-
plemented by annual appropriations of funds), which originally
entrusted the task of compiling, editing, and publishing to the
Department of State. On May 24, 1950, the project was transferred
from the Department of State to the National Archives and Record
Service, General Services Administration, by action of the President
pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. 20 of 1950. The transfer was
subsequently approved by the Congress.
A headnote to each document identifies the source from which it
is derived. Footnotes, supplied wherever appropriate, are of four
kinds: (1) explanations of the historical background of some of the
basic documents, such as acts of the Congress, (2) identifications of
persons and places, to a limited extent, (3) location of relevant
documents not included in the edition, and (4) cross references.
Editorial interpretations of the text are excluded. All footnotes
for each paper are placed at the bottom of the page-or pages—rather
than at the end of the document, or in the end-pages of the volume.
The scholar's time, convenience, and patience are thus best served.
The placement of the papers is chronological, with the exception
of enclosures which are usually, though not always, retained with
their covers. There are other minor, but justifiable, exceptions to
the sequential order. The textual matter is divided for reasons of
convenience into several parts corresponding approximately to suc-
cessive administrations in the office of governor. Deviations from
this arrangement will, of course, be noted and understood.
An index is supplied for each of the volumes. These indexes, pre-
pared personally by the Editor, are designed to supplement the foot-
notes in the use of the documents. In this regard an attempt has
been made to include all names of persons and places in addition to
an analysis of the subject matter of the text.
Iti
A r- OA QPQ?


<pb#10/>

IV PR E FA C E
The prefaces to previous volumes of the Territorial Papers series
have described the metes and bounds of the publications as a whole
and of each volume in particular. The general subject of selection
has also been delineated by the Editor in a brochure entitled “His-
torical Editing” (Bulletins of the National Archives, No. 7, August
1952), pages 14–18 and passim. Although there are many unifying
threads running throughout the official records of the several terri-
tories—some of high significance—the papers of an individual terri-
tory represent a complete unit, and they will be used by many per-
sons who will have no occasion to consult other volumes of the col-
lection. It is therefore deemed expedient to restate for readers of
the present series of volumes on Florida Territory the principles on
which selections of documents for publication have been predicated.
At the outset of the project of publishing the Territorial Papers,
in 1931, certain controls (six in number) were established to insure
against fortuitous and random selections. These principles of selec-
tion have never been seriously modified and have never been ignored.
1. The sternest of the controls in question is fiscal: with a limited
supply of funds available the Editor has had to remind himself con-
tinuously to exercise economy of space and time, and therefore of
funds, in order not to exceed what can be paid for and at the same
time to preserve a fairly equitable balance between the various cate-
gories of documents he proposes to treat. The two elements must
equate. The fiscal control is therefore a key element which at once
prescribes other types of controls.
2. A second control requires the general exclusion of papers prev-
iously edited and published in good form—their citation being suf-
ficient. But there are exceptions to this rule as will be perceived by
users of this volume and its successors on the Territory of Florida.
A single document considered as essential to the completion of a
series, or one to which reference is frequently made in other papers
chosen for inclusion, is reproduced without hesitation. It is also
a rule of general application that relevant documents hitherto pub-
lished, if marred by defective printing or other corruptions, are
definitely subject to reproduction from the originals. Yet the
sum of the papers republished in the present volume is inconsequential:
out of approximately 790 separate documents including enclosures,
not more than 68 have heretofore appeared in any printed form.
Subsequent volumes in the Florida series contain substantially fewer
items previously printed.
3. A third control excludes from publication papers which, though
relevant, are trivial in character, possessing no special significance
and contributing nothing of intrinsic value. Yet occasionally, among
the flotsam and jetsam of nearly every collection of manuscripts,
there are found remnants of such seminal quality as to warrant
publication.


<pb#11/>

PR E FA C E. W
4. A fourth control governing the treatment of routine documents
was also formulated. Such documents cannot be omitted entirely,
but it is the practice to exclude a very large portion of purely routine
letters and other documents, such as acknowledgments and covering
letters, when no pertinent information is introduced. It is the rule,
however, to cite such correspondence. There are still other types of
papers, relevant to those of primary interest and significance, which
embody allusions to various facets of routine administration on both
the Federal and territorial levels, a few of which are profitably retained
as illustrations of the procedural methods of transacting the public
business of the period involved. Such ordinary letters, usually brief,
tend to unify the whole—to supply essential bones to the structure.
5. The fifth control disposes of documents containing duplicate
information. It has been the custom, extended to this volume and
its companions, to select the document which contains the fullest
story and to cite the rejected pieces in footnotes.
By the adoption of all the controls thus briefly described, it has been
possible to reduce very greatly the size of the manuscript of a volume
in preparation for the printers. But any manuscript volume of this
series, while still in its plastic state, usually needs further subtractions
in order to bring it within the possibility of publication.
6. A final control is intended to reduce further the number of papers
to be included, eliminate still further the element of chance, and con-
tribute towards cementing the various types of documents into a
unified whole. This control applies a priority rule to the task of
selection. An early study of the residue of assembled documents for
a territory, after the deductions already mentioned had been made,
disclosed that most of the papers were related directly or indirectly
to the administration of the territory: the territory was in the first
instance an administrative problem for the Federal Government and
papers relating to its governance necessarily became the core of the
work. Thus a principal, cohesive theme was laid out before us; and
selection has, throughout the life of the project to date, followed this
theme.
The adoption of a priority formula has not meant, however, that
documents not specifically referable to the administrative theme are
totally excluded: descriptive accounts of the territory—its geography,
resources, climate, people and the like are also deemed worthy of
reproduction within reasonable limits, especially if positive contribu-
tions to historical knowledge are made thereby. The priority principle
is consequently administered in a flexible manner, as are all the rules
of selection. There is, indeed, no rule without its exception.
How then, has the priority rule been administered in this volume?
Until 1873 the Department of State was in general charge of the


<pb#12/>

VI PR E FA C E
administration of the territories of the United States, and that
Department's files therefore contain a number of highly relevant
papers, though the numerical quantity of such records is small as
compared with the quantity in some other branches of the Govern-
ment. The intent has been to reproduce every paper in the State
Department files which possesses a relevancy to Florida Territory and
have not been previously published in good and available form.
An additional restraint is also exercised, as in the rejection of docu-
ments that are purely cumulative. Rejected documents are cited in
footnotes.
The letter books of the Postmaster General contain a broken,
incomplete file of copies of letters sent pertaining to the establishment
and operation of the postal system in the territories. Every pertinent
item from this source has been culled and reproduced in the present
printing, as in previous volumes of the series. Unfortunately incom-
ing letters to the Post Office Department have disappeared for this
and other early periods.
Petitions and memorials of the inhabitants and of the territorial
assembly to the Congress and to the Executive Departments, as found
in the files of the United States Senate and House of Representatives,
and occasionally elsewhere, disclosing the aspirations and the demands
of the people, are all included excepting duplicate texts, some already
in print, and those dealing with the great diversity of private land and
other claims. Students may therefore be fairly assured that with
regard to the three categories of documents thus briefly described an
approach to completeness has been achieved.
A higher degree of selection becomes inevitable with respect to other
classes of materials, and the process of choice is again controlled
through judging the relevancy of the papers to administration.
Records in the General Land Office relating to the adjudication of
land titles, and the survey, sale, and administration of public lands
are viewed as coming directly under the general rule of inclusion.
They are Federal in character and are related directly to the settlement
and governance of the territory. It is obvious, however, that volumes
of the proportions of the ones in hand, which also embody other
essential classes of materials, cannot supply the complete story of the
land problem, especially with respect to the settlement of claims
stemming from the Spanish and British periods of occupancy. The
selection of such documents as are here presented has therefore been
with the view of supplementing those already in print, and it is hoped
that the citations of such published papers as well as unpublished
sources will light the way for the student of the land question which
occupied more of the attention of the officials and people of the ter-
ritory, as well as the Federal Government, than any other set of events.


<pb#13/>

- * -- ~-------, *** *** A off tour told
Papers publication upon documents relating to Indian affairs than
upon those which concern other facets of territorial history. Mate-
rials relating to Indians are so enormous in quantity that a separate
and different publication would be required to provide an adequate
documentary collection. Such a documentation would need to be
executed without reference to state and territorial boundaries. But
it is clear that an edition of the official records of a territory will not
be adequate with the Indian phase entirely erased, whether in its
political or in its commercial aspects. Fortunately for the volumes
dealing with Florida Territory only one tribe-the Seminole—is
involved (in Arkansas Territory there were more than a dozen)
so that the amount of materials to be screened and considered for
publication is reduced. And although the process of selection is at
times a painful one-excisions are always painful, especially of papers
which lend color—an endeavor has been made to avoid caprice in its
execution. Documents respecting the details of Indian wars are
generally excluded, in the main.
In this regard, however, the defense of the territory, with which
the territorial government was materially concerned, is considered
as possessing a distinctive relationship to administration. The
governor's militia powers (he was commander-in-chief of the militia
of the territory) was definitely a part of his executive prerogative, and
papers relating thereto in connection with the protection of the
territory from Indian attacks must be viewed as relevant and con-
sequently subject to reproduction. Furthermore, the governor of
the territory was also superintendent of Indian affairs within the
confines of this jurisdiction, and his two-fold functions were often
closely identified. Events connected with one branch of the service
not infrequently impinged upon whose pertaining to the other.
In this respect, the governor was in nominal control of Indian agencies,
and although the men who officered these agencies were appointed
from Washington, they reported to him as well as to their superiors
in the Federal Government and were subject as well to his instructions
under certain conditions.
The governor was likewise drawn into close relations with the
officials of other extraterritorial establishments either through joint
instructions to all territorial, Indian, and military officials, or by
reason of the necessity of cooperation between himself in his dual
capacity and the heads of the various establishments mentioned.
With respect to Federal military posts within the territory and to
the problem of territorial defense, there was frequent necessity for
consultation by the governor not only with the Secretary of War
but also with the commandants at various forts and posts. The


<pb#14/>

VIII PR E FA C E
extension of white settlements made it necessary to acquire title to
Indian lands, in which respect the governor was usually either the
negotiator or joint-negotiator; in any case, documents which concern
the acquirement of title to Indian lands possess an immediaterelevancy.
It is with this class of papers that those relating to the public land
system tend to dovetail.
The possession by the Territory of Florida of a long coast line with
numerous harbors, bays, and dangers to navigation necessitated the
appointment by the Federal Government of varieties of officials
not to be found in most of the inland territories of the United States.
Several of the functions performed on the coast came under the
administration of the Department of the Treasury, which had super-
vision of the collectors of customs, keepers of light houses, and the
revenue cutter service. A fire in the building of the Department
of the Treasury on March 31, 1833, destroyed the records pertaining
to the administration of the customs. These were partly replaced
by obtaining copies from the files of the collectors of their correspon-
dence with the Department. Ports of entry were established at
Apalachicola, Fernandina, Jacksonville, Key West, Pensacola, and
St. Augustine, but all of the records of these ports have been burned,
lost, or have otherwise disappeared, except for a portion of those of
Key West (Survey of Federal Archives, Inventory of Federal Archives
in the States, Series III, The Department of the Treasury, No. 9,
Florida [Jacksonville, 1941], pp. 29, 46, 62, 73, 105, 116). In the
selection of documents relative to these agencies emphasis is upon their
establishment and those aspects of their activities that related to the
administration of the territory. Along the same lines selections
were made from the voluminous records of the Navy Department
concerning the naval stations at Key West and Pensacola, as well as
timber preservation.
A number of the series of records used in the compilation of these
volumes, particularly letters sent and registers of letters received of
the various departments and agencies, have been included in the
microfilm publication program of the National Archives. These will
be found listed in the List of National Archives Microfilm Publications
(Washington, 1953).
The general aim of this work looks toward a literal reproduction of
the original document—though it is obvious that complete literalism,
short of the facsimile process, is unattainable in the printed text.
Nevertheless, insofar as the textual portion of the document is con-
cerned, an endeavor is made to conform to the original, including the
varied peculiarities of the writer's spelling, abbreviations, punctuation,
capitalization, cancelled words, and paragraphing-in brief, the idio-
syncrasies of both the writer and the age are preserved. To proceed
otherwise would be to bypass certain significant facets of the cultural


<pb#15/>

PR E FA C E IX
status of an earlier era as glimpsed in the character of the written
record, which, it is submitted, equates with the bare facts of politics
and wars as historical grist. Modernization of the style of an older
generation is therefore viewed as incompatible with the restoration
of its written records. Such a practice tends to obscure rather than
to clarify.
One of the central documents among the official records of all the
territories is the Executive Register, or Executive Journal, or Journal
of Executive Proceedings (it is variously termed), which embodies
appointments by the governor, and in some instances copies of official
documents. This record was kept by the territorial secretary, and,
as required by law, he sent a certified copy twice yearly to the Secre-
tary of State in Washington. He retained the original, which became
a part of the territorial archives and subsequently a part of the state
archives. It is unfortunate that for some of the territories, including
Florida Territory, both the original and the official copy of this highly
important document have largely disappeared. One fragment of the
official copy (January–June 1840) remains, which is reproduced in a
later volume of this series.
The boundaries of this presentation of documents exclude, in gen-
eral, papers of local origin and circulation excepting where such items
have found lodgment in the Federal archives. This suggests, there-
fore, that there are two classes of territorial papers: those of a Federal
nature, comprising correspondence between officials of the Federal
Government and the governors and other appointive territorial
officials, Congressional papers, and the like. The Executive Register,
mentioned above, is primarily a Federal document, but on the other
hand journals of the territorial assembly and laws passed by it, and
records of the territorial judiciary are definitely local territorial records.
The same is true of county records. To be sure an occasional frag-
ment of a judicial record or an act of the assembly is found in an en-
closure in some document which is definitely Federal in character.
In such cases the item is reproduced if its pertinence is plain.
The present offering may be supplemented by use of the American
State Papers, especially the series on Public Lands, Military Affairs,
Naval Affairs, and Miscellaneous. But the series in question must
be used with caution; for serious use, collation with the originals,
whenever found, is always advisable. Footnotes will direct the reader
to still other printed sources, such as the United States Statutes at
Large and the Laws of Florida Territory. Valuable also is Spanish
Land Grants in Florida: Briefed Translations from the Archives of the
Boards of Commissioners for Ascertaining Claims and Titles to Land
in the Territory of Florida (Historical Records Survey, Florida; Talla-
hassee, 1940). The late Professor David Y. Thomas, in his “Report
on the Public Archives of Florida” (American Hist. Assoc. Annual


<pb#16/>

X P R E FA C E
Report for 1906, Vol. II, 150–157), lists a number of relevant papers,
Federal in origin, some of which have since disappeared. Much of
the record material in Florida was included in the State Documents
Microfilm Project directed by Dr. William S. Jenkins for the Library
of Congress and the University of North Carolina and will be found
listed in A Guide to the Microfilm Collection of Early State Records,
edited by Lillian A. Hamrick (Washington, 1950), and in a supplement
published in 1951. Documents from the Florida State Library as
well as others from the records of the U. S. Senate and House of
Representatives, relative to the Constitutional Convention of 1838,
and the movement for statehood are printed in Dorothy Dodd (ed.),
Florida Becomes a State (Tallahassee, Florida Centennial Commission,
1945).
Contemporary Florida newspapers are indispensable to the scholar,
whether interested in historical materials on the local or on the Federal
level. Pertinent newspapers, issues of which are extant and available
in the Library of Congress, are The Floridian (Pensacola, 1821–1824),
Pensacola Gazette (1824–1845), Florida Herald and Southern Democrat
(St. Augustine, 1822–1845), The News (St. Augustine, 1838–1844),
Florida Intelligencer (Tallahassee, 1825–1826), Florida Advocate (Talla-
hassee, 1827–1829), The Weekly Floridian (1829–1845), and Star of
Florida (Tallahassee, 1838–1845). The histories of these and other
newspapers are presented in James O. Knauss' Territorial Florida
Journalism (Publications of the Florida State Historical Society, No.
6, Deland, Fla., 1926).
The Editor is indebted to Dr. Henry P. Beers, of the Territorial
Papers staff, for material aid in the discovery, selection, arrange-
ment, and annotation of these volumes, as well as for his bibliograph-
ical knowledge.
C. E. C.
The National Archives
Washington, D. C.
September 4, 1956.


<pb#17/>

CONTENTS
VOLUME XXII P
age
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III
Symbols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XIII
Part
One: Papers Relating to the Transition from Spanish to
American Rule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Two: Papers Relating to the Administration of Governor
Jackson, 1821 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Three: Papers Relating to the Administrations of Acting
Governors Worthington (East Florida) and Walton
(West Florida) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Four: Papers Relating to the First Administration of Gov-
ernor DuVal, 1822–1825 . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989


<pb#18/>



<pb#19/>

SYMBOLS
attested copy
autograph document
autograph document signed
Adjutant General's Office
autograph letter
autograph letter signed
copy
copy signed
draft
document signed
duplicate
extract
General Accounting Office
General Land Office
House of Representatives Files
Historical Records Survey
Judge Advocate General
Library of Congress
letter-press copy
letter signed
National Archives
Navy Department
Office of Indian Affairs
Office of Indian Trade
Printed
Private Land Claims
Post Office Department
State Department
Senate Files
Surveyor General
Surveyor General's Office
Secretary of the Navy
Secretary of War
Treasury Department
translation
War Department
XIII


<pb#20/>



<pb#21/>

PART ONE
Papers relating to the Transition from
Spanish to American rule
1821
301867–56–2



<pb#22/>


