</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ROBERT R. REID AS GOVERNOR</dochead>
<source>[NA: SD, Temp. Comms., Pres.]</source>
<place-time>[December 2, 1839]</place-time>
<docbody>M. V. BUREN, President of the U. States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, greeting:
Know Ye, that reposing special trust and Confidence in the integrity and Ability of ROB" R. REID, I do appoint him Governor, in and for the Territory of Florida,” and do authorize and empower Him to execute & fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law, and to Have &
to Hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto of right appertaining unto Him the said ROBERT R.
REID, during the pleasure of the President of the U. States, for the time being, and until the end of the next Session of the Senate of the U. States, & no longer.”
In Testimony whereof &c Given under my hand at the L.S. City of Washington A.D. 1839, Dec 2, and of Independence 64
</docbody>
<dochead>M. V. BUREN By the President J. FORSYTH Secy of State THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO JOHN T. MCLAUGHLIN</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Lets. to Officers Ships of War, Bk. 28]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT Dec 2nd 1839</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. When the U. S. Schooner Flirt is in all respects ready for sea you will proceed with every possible dispatch to such a point of the coast of Florida as from your knowledge and experience in that quarter you shall deem most proper for the commencement of the Operations with which you are charged.
The nature of these, you will have been made fully acquainted with through former instructions from the War Depart" while acting

under its orders.—In addition to these your attention will be directed, so far as may be compatible with the protection you are to afford at all times to shipwrecked Wessels and Marines to giving every possible annoyance to the Hostile “Indians” and cooperating with the military officers, whenever properly called on for that purpose.
You will also keep a watchful eye upon the Spanish fishermen from the Island of Cuba, who are allowed under certain conditions specified in the treaty between the United States and Spain, to fish on the Coast of Florida, and who it is believed supply the hostile Indians with ammunition, on sufficient proof of the fact, you will order them from the Coast It has occurred to the Department, that your suggestion as to the practicability of penetrating the everglades and capturing the Indian Women and Children undoubtedly concealed there, is practicable, if proper means, are perfectly applied.—You will therefore furnish yourself with a sufficient number of large flat bottomed boats to carry all the men, that can at any time be spared from the Wessels under your Command, and in addition to these procure a like sufficiency of long plantation Canoes, as it is believed they are called.—
Thus with your barges you may approach as near as possible to the point of operation with the flatbottomed boats proceed as far as the depth of water will permit, and with the light swift Canoes penetrate whenever there is Water. By these means, the Department cannot but hope you will be able to penetrate the Everglades further than has yet been done by white men, Surprise and capture the Indian Women and Children, and thus end a War which has cost so many millions In addition to these boats, you are authorized, if opportunity offers to procure a couple or more of Spanish blood hounds, not to hunt down and destroy the Indians, but to be employed in scouring the banks of the Streams or inlets, into which you may penetrate in order to guard against ambuscades. the most extreme caution is required in the Enterprise to which your attention has been directed, and the Department cannot but consider an officer who exposes himself to the possibility of surprise, as chargeable with the grossest negligence, and responsible for all the consequences.
When not engaged in any undertaking requiring the co-operation of all the Wessels, it is desirable, that they should be employed separately, at such points as you may deem most proper, and which circumstances may seem most to require. You will be careful to preserve the strictest discipline, and to enjoin on all young officers to be careful to conduct themselves in their intercourse with the Inhabitants of Florida in such a manner as to acquire and preserve

their respect and confidence—The Service in which they are engaged is one of dangers and exposure, which it is hoped will finally result to their honor and the benefit of the Country.
The Department requires that you will act as Purser to the Flirt and Ostego, having no officer of that Class at its disposal.
For the purpose of aiding you in the Discharge of this duty, you are allowed a Clerk, or other responsible person, for whose conduct you will be held accountable.
Commander Mayo has been ordered to return to the north with the Poinsett, and directed to leave his barges at Tea Table Key, for your use, should you require them.
I enclose for your information memorandums respecting various Harbours on the Coast of Florida prepared by Lieuts Clark and Peters of the Revenue Service.
Before sailing you will transmit to the Department a complete Muster Roll of the Officers and Crew of the Flirt.*
I am respectfully Your obed" Servt J K PAULDING
L* JOHN T. M°LAUGHLIN Comg U. S. Schooner Flirt JOHN J. 
</docbody>
<dochead>ABERT TO JOHN MACKAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topgr Engrs WASHINGTON, Dec 2" 1839.</place-time>
<docbody>CPT J. MACKAY C. T. E. Savannah G*
SIR Your letters of the 25**27** & 28th Novb." have been received.
The appropriation for the road from Jacksonville to Gareys ferry is too small to justify the employ of a Surveyor. As the road is in the vicinity of L' Gunnisons duties, he could be directed to make the necessary reconnoissance of it.
I transmit you a copy of the regulation to which you refer in your letter of the 27th ulto Lieut Gunnison has been informed that the expenses of the Survey which he contemplates to make of the pass between the S" Johns &
the S" Mary's Should be charged to the appropriation for that improvement.

A requisition has been this day made in your favour for $500 on account of the road from Jacksonville to Newnansville.
Rspctfly &
Signed: J. J. ABERT. C. T. E.
</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES EVANS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Acceptances:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Pensacola WEST FLORIDA December 7" 1839.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have had the honor to receive yours of the 28* October last” informing me of my appointment as marshal of the Western District of Florida," and having made up my mind to accept the office, I have this day received my commission and qualifyed under it, I
therefore beg leave to inform the Department that I was born in Montgomery County State of North Carolina July 20* 1801. My parents emigrated southward in the year 1804, and after residing sometime in South Carolina and Mississippi Territory, removed to Pensacola in December 1808, at which place I have continued to reside ever Since.
I have the honor to be Sir very respectfully your ob" Serv"
CHARLES EVANS.
TO THE HON' JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State of the United States Washington City (D.C.)
[Endorsed] U. S. Marshal West dist: Florida Charles Evans accepts Dec. 23/39. Rec" 22 Dec" Mr Hodgson THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE PRESIDENT
<source>[LC:Van Buren Papers:LS]</source>
<place-time>December 10" [1839]</place-time>
DEAR SIR I send you Judge Reid's letter"—Since we parted another reason for early action in the appt" of the new Governor has occurred to me—The Legislature of Florida meets first Monday in January and it is important the Present Governor should not give the tone to their proceedings and equally so that his successor should be prepared to do so. If the Appt" be made immediately I can despatch one of my officers with the Commission—

You will not I think hear anything more from M. Duval * as he is aware of his removal from Office—
Yours truly J. R. POINSETT
I have marked a part of Col. Gadsden's letter" which shows the state of Florida. "
[Addressed] The President
[Endorsed] Mr Poinsett THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ZACHARY TAYLOR
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>December 11th 1839.</place-time>
BRIGADIER GENERAL Z. TAYLOR Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, It was intended by the order of the 30" of August last,” that the three hundred men, which it provided might be raised and commanded by the Governor of Florida, should be of such a description as he might think proper to embody, whether mounted or unmounted, or a combination of both. Hence the order contained no restriction on that point. It was further intended that this force, according to its character, should be furnished with every description of supplies authorized by the regulations for a similar force. From your letter of the 18" of September last," acknowledging the receipt of the order, the department feels satisfied that the Governor thought proper that the force should be mounted, that it was mustered into the service as such, and that you took measures to have it provided with every description of supplies to which it was entitled. You will see, however, from the enclosed copy of a letter from the Honorable C. Downing, addressed to the President," that it is represented that the Officers of the Army, detailed for the duty of furnishing them with supplies, have refused to provide them with forage. If this has been the case, I have to request that you will see that the mistake is corrected in the proper manner.
I will thank you for a full and early report showing of what description of troops the force in question consisted—what was its strength as mustered into the service—what were your directions in regard to its being furnished with supplies—what were furnished and especially

whether there is any ground for the representation contained in M*.
Downing's letter.”
J. R. P.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ROBERT R. REID AS GOVERNOR</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Commissions, E2]</source>
<place-time>[December 13, 1839]</place-time>
<docbody>MWAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity and ability of ROBERT R. REID I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.” do appoint him Governor in and for the territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to Law, and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges &
emoluments, thereunto of right appertaining, unto him, the said ROBERT R. REID, for the term of three years, from the day of the date hereof.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L. S. Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the 13" day of December in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty nine and of the Independence of the United States of America, the 64*
M. WAN BUREN
By the President:
J. FORSYTH Secretary of State.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JOHN C.
</docbody>
<dochead>CLELAND</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Pub. Lands Letter Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 14 Dec 1839</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN C. CLELAND Esq late Receiver, St. Augustine E. Fa.
SIR, Your letter of the 7" inst. has been received.” In reply, I have to remind you, that more than a month after you admit the receipt of

9
orders given by the Department to deposit in bank, you wrote to this Department, viz: on the 14" ultimo,” and offered no excuse whatever for not having made the deposite. You were also under instructions before those—and repeated more than once, to deposit your funds on hand at Savannah which you entirely neglected. Whether your subsequent payment to the Commissioners on certain Florida claims, without any authority whatever, and in direct violation of former orders to put the balance in the Treasury at Savannah, can be received or not, is now undergoing inquiry. In respect to your explanations concerning the complaints made to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, I regret to say they were not satisfactory to the President, and I do not apprehend that he will feel justified in re-appointing you. I am respectfully, &c.
L.W. Scy. of Treas'
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JOHN C.
- CLELAND
<source>[NA:TD, ST Pub. Lands Letter Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 17 Dec. 1839</place-time>
JOHN C. CLELAND Esq. late Recv' of P. Money, St. Augustine E. Flr".
SIR, I herewith transmit copies of the reports of the Commissioner and Solicitor of the General Land-Office upon the legality of the payment, made by you to the Register and Receiver at St. Augustine for alledged services as Commissioners on certain land claims, under the act of May 26" 1830,” and to their Secretary, of one thousand dollars each.
This Department concurs in the views presented in the reports above referred to, and not only disapproves of the payment in question, but regards the course pursued by the officer in so doing, and so using the money without special authority, as highly reprehensible.”
I am &c L.W. Scy of the Treas'
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO FRANCIS L. DANCY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>December 17th 1839.</place-time>
<docbody>F. L. DANCY Esquire Mayor of St Augustine St Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 3" instant,” and in answer

to your patriotic offer therein, have to inform you that, if you will raise a company they shall be mustered into the service as mounted men, and the command of them conferred upon you as Captain—
They will then compose the Garrison of St Augustine, and it is hoped that you may be able to effect what you propose with their aid.
General Taylor has been requested to take measures for carrying out this arrangement.”
J R P.
</docbody>
<dochead>JESSE MILLER  TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT First Auditor's office Dec 20, 1839</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. The letter of Mr A M Gatler to Mr Forsyth and Mr Forsyth's letter to you in relation to Marshal Duval of Florida are herewith returned The last Accts rec" from Sam" H Duval as Marshal were adjusted in this office on the 13" October 1838—and shew a balance against him of $9111.79–
Mr Duval was in this office some time last fall and told me he had been absent from the Territory for some time in consequence of ill health and that when he left home he had given his Deputy directions to forward his Accts and that he expected to have found them here.
He seemed much disappointed in finding they had not been rec" and called several days in succession to inquire for them. Since then I
have not heard from him I am very respectfully Your Ob" Sert J. MILLER
HON LEWI WOODBURY
[Endorsed] Recd. with L. Woodbury's Dec 21" 1839.”
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Acceptances:ALS]</source>
<place-time>S” Augustine E. FLORIDA 26th December 1839</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have received your letter of the 13th Inst.” enclosing to me a Commission as Governor of Florida.” I accept with gratitude the

the trust confided to me by this appointment, and Shall forthwith proceed to take the oath of office and to perform to the best of my ability the duties of the office to which it has pleased the President to call me.
Having yet some judicial duties to perform, I beg that my acceptance of the Office of Governor may take date from the 1* January next as also my resignation of the office of Judge."
I am—Sir Very respectfully y' ob" S"
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
HON J. FORSYTH Secretary of State—
[Endorsed] Governor of Florida Rob" R. Reid accepts. Jan 10.
1840 Rec" 8 Jany Mr Hodgson MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[December 26, 1839]</place-time>
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled The Memorial of the undersigned citizens of East Florida, humbly sheweth, That great inconvenience being now experienced from the distance at which the public Lands lying in this section of the Country are exposed for sale, that by far the greater part of the public lands which are now entered at the Land office at S*Augustine being situated more particularly within the counties of Alachua & Columbia; that many persons who would otherwise become purchasers, are now deterred therefrom by inability to visit the Land office at St Augustine and consequently that sales are greatly retarded, and many who are entitled to the same by the right of pre-emption, are subjected to great loss and inconvenience which would otherwise render their improvements more valuable; that great delay is also made in the rapid settlement and improvement of the country in consequence of the great distance to the Land office; that they believe that by careful examination of the entries of land made at the Land office at S*
Augustine, it will be found that by far the greater part of the Lands which for many months past have been entered at said office are

situated in the section of country lying between the S" John's and the Suwannee rivers, and that all or nearly all of the valuable land, lying in the vicinity of S*Augustine (of which there is but a small portion)
are already entered; that in order to transact business at the Land office the citizens particularly, as well as many others are compelled to travel a distance of from one to two hundred miles to S*Augustine, through (at present) a part of the country which is exposed to Indian depredations that citizens residing in distant parts of the country often visit the counties of Columbia & Alachua who are desirous of entering Land but are deterred from doing so in consequence of the distance to the Land office; that there is a large portion of the Public Lands lying in said counties which are daily sought for and not sold in consequence of said distance—that this section of country is every day advancing in importance & improvement so far as its present condition will allow, and only requires that the savage enemy, which is now laying disturbing its peace and prosperity be expelled and it will soon be known and appreciated, as it really is the garden of the South.
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray, that your Honorable body will give such consideration to their wishes as expressed in this memorial and that you will pass an act to establish a Land office at Newnansville in the county of Alachua East Florida—and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray.—
Newnansville FLORIDA December 26, 1839
Subscribers Names Francis R. Sanchez John F Miller E. K. White M. D G Helvenston A McNeill John Tucker Bennett M Dell Charles. W. Hines James M Bates Tho" C. Ellis James Pendarvis Horace Wickham Micajah Deen Moses Freyermuth FA. Underwood N. J. Turner C Goodrich Charles L. Dell Sam" Hinson Tho" Colding Laborn Burnet Light Townsend J. A. Tucker Edward Denison Ja" Lanier James L. Townsend Benjamin Mills Horace Avery Thos E. Barrow A. B. Sanchez James Gibbons Wm WaterS
Jesse Standley Gab! Waters John E. Tucker T. J. Prevatt

Philip Pell T. E. Aldrich E Stafford Joshua Mizell Morgan Mizell Langley Bryant Simeon Dell Asa Roberts Z R Roberts James Hague James Brooks J. W. Clemments Samuel Barber Lewis B. David W. H. Russaw William carver Sampson carver Wilson carver Richard Tillis Isaac Smith Henry Smith Joseph Tillis Wayne Tillis Joseph Warren Alfred Peterson Moses Edwards A Woods W. Clemments Warren Harville William Marcum James Tillis John Powell William J. Clemments Moses Edwards Albert Peterson William Rolling The Haas Weeks signed before E. I. Hart John Suggs John Hope Elijah Caraway William Hope Junior J Garrasen James Hall Lewis Provost Thomas Piles J S Taylor Shadrach Lastinger Joseph. A. Evrett Edward S. Aldrich James Kelly Berrian Harville John J Sanchez Elijah Tucker Enoch Gieger Spencer Price Fleming Bates James Martin James Turner W. S. Olmsted G. F. Olmsted John R. Hague J: D Osteen Gideon Hague John Christian Hope James M*Neill Robert Williams James Standley M. M. Smith Theophilus Weeks Thomas Weeks John Pierce Silas Weeks William Scott Nathan Smith John Curry Jo” A. Mattair AWilliaña MarettHa
(signed before)
Ezekiel Weeks J. J. Willis Thomas Welch James Burnett B. Dixon Benjamin Harris J E Harville E E Mizell

Rob" Youngblood David Mezell Jun"
David Mezell Sen”
Ja" Niblack Samuel Geiger C. F. Duerr Geo. E. McClellan Jacob Summerlin Noah French Wiley Brooks Francis P Sanchez Henry Harn Joshua Stafford Wm Harn John Wickman Brittan Knight Daniel Joyce M°D. Jackson Arthur Roberts Asa Clark Henry Beard William Hope E. H. Harville Henry Hope James Harn John. W. Moore Alfred Moony Josiah Seckinger Wilson Bates John B. Standley Andrew Crum Jos. S. Knight John G. Tiner Benj Moody W" Addams Britton Branch Moses Horne
[Endorsed] Florida—Inh" Petition from the Citizens of E. Florida for a Land office, at Newnansville 157 Signers Territories Feb 6 1840
Refd to the Committee on the Territories with Bill N° 323 *—Dec 21.
1840 Refd to the Comee on the Territories 32 Dec 23. 1841 Refd to Com” on the Territories * Dec 19. 1842, Ref" to Comm” on the Territories* Levy
[Section 2 of Subscribers to Memorial]
Fort White E FLORIDA Jan” 1840

24 Patrick McMahon 33 Gilbert McNiele
25 Thomas Donly 34 Duglass P. Sayre
26 William McCoy 35 Andrew Curtis
27 Jarred Porter 36 John Harrison
28 George Goaldin 37 John Parmer
29 Joseph Robles 38 Robert Savage
30 William Brooks 39 H. Burrows
31 Patrick Donovan 40 Stephen Raynlds
32 John Hackit 41 Samuel Worthington [Endorsed] Petition from the Citizens of Newnansville for a Land office at that place 41 Signers move to be discharged the subject having been acted upon by Comm” on public Land *
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book, G2]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT Decr 27th 1839</place-time>
<docbody>HoN J R PolNSETT Secy of War.
I have the honor to enclose herewith the papers now on file in this Dept in relation to the Post Office at Tampa, in Florida, with a request that you will be pleased to read them and advise as to the appointment of a Successor to the late Postmaster at that Office *
A. K.
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES N. BARKER  TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, First Comptroller's office:—December 27: 1839.—</place-time>
<docbody>SIR—The Secretary of the Treasury having been apprized, pursuant to the reference to this office of a communication addressed by you to him in regard to the accounts of Marshal Duval of Florida, that they had been adjusted as far as rendered and that on the last adjustment a balance of over $9000 was then found due, he has

replied under date of yesterday that he thinks it would be proper to take immediate steps to collect the balance unless on consulting the State Department to which the Marshal belongs reasons are known and given for delay.
Will you be pleased under these circumstances to afford the information deemed necessary.—I have the honor to be, With great respect: Your obdt servt:
J N BARKER Comptroller.
HONORABLE JOHN FORSYTH, Secretary of State.
[Endorsed] Rec" 28 Decr Mr Dickins DELEGATE DOWNING TO THE PRESIDENT
<source>[NA: SD, Misc. Letters: ALS]</source>
<place-time>- Decr 29, 1839</place-time>
SIR I learned yesterday, that charges had been made against Sam H. Duvall Marshall of Middle Florida, & that in consequence of those charges, you had directed the Sec. of the Trea. to Settle M’
Duvalls account. I did not see the letter containing the charges. I
saw the name of the Writer, as written by M. Millar & believe it to be fictitious.
But sir the object of this letter is to shew you, that the balance standing against M” Duvall on the books of the Treasury, furnished no evidence of his indebtedness, but the contrary.
M” Duvall disburses public money annually to the Amount of 15 or
20 thousand dollars—the average expense of his several courts, will be found, by the books of the Treasury, to amount to that sum—for 16 months, Mr Duvall has borne the expenses of these courts, without aid from the Treasury—The last advance or remittance made to him, was on the 26th day of Sept 1838. It will be seen then at once, that if M" Duvall has rec’d nothing from the Treasury for sixteen months or for five quarters, to pay the expenses of the several District Courts of Middle Florida, & the Court of Appeals at Tallahassee, which average more than $15000 p” An. that he cannot be a defaulter—
I beg leave to state, that the sickness of M" Duvall has been the sole cause of his failure to render his accounts—I had the pleasure to introduce him to you at the W* Springs, in the summer of 1839—He visited the same springs during the last summer–He was here in Oct' anxiously waiting his accounts, which he said he had ordered his Deputy to forward—& expressed much vexation at not finding them—
Since his return, his health has been, as I learn, rapidly declining—
I have written to him to forward his accounts, at once, 

I beg of you therefore, Sir, not to listen to the charges of men, who if real & existent, are not known to you, in prefering charges, against the best officers of our territory and above all, not to remove, an honest man, now dying with the Consumption, on a charge of delinquency, which a close examination of the books of the Treasury will confute; Nor, for a failure to render in his accounts, made impossible, by continued Sickness—give him at least, a hearing ”
I am Sir respy y' obser C DOWNING
TO HIS EXC' MR—VAN BUREN
[Addressed] His Excelly M. Van Buren Pres. of U. States Washington City D. C. [Postmarked] Washington Dec. 29 Free
[Endorsed] Ref" to the Sect” of State MVB P. S. Would it not be advisable to have the Marshall written to before legal proceedings are instituted I think so MVB C Downing RESOLUTION BY THE UNITED STATES SENATE
<source>[NA: SD, Misc. Letters: DS]</source>
<place-time>In the Senate of the United States, December 30" 1839.”</place-time>
Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to obtain from the constituted authorities in Florida, and to communicate to the Senate, a statement of the amount of all the Territorial bonds issued, and authorized to be issued, in that Territory; with copies from the Journals of the Legislative Council shewing every thing that was done in authorizing the issue of such bonds, with the names of the members of the council at the time and their votes in each case; the names of the Governors who may have approved laws for the issuing of Territorial bonds, or who may have signed or endorsed the said bonds; also the purposes for which such bonds were issued, and when issued in favor of corporations, the names of the corporations and of the corporators and their officers, and the use made of said bonds;
and the present value of said bonds in the American and European Markets, with the condition of the corporations which have had the use of said bonds, and how far they are fulfilling the purposes for which they were created: Also, a statement of all the acts of incorporation which have been passed by the said Legislative Council of Florida since the 3" day of March, 1823, and the acts in amendment

thereof; and when and how the said acts were “reported to the President of the United States to be laid before Congress.”
Attest, ASBURY DICKINS, Secretary.
[Endorsed] Rec" 31 Dec'. M. Dickins Copy sent to the Gov' of Florida 3d Jany 1840."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO SAMUEL H. DUVAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xxx]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE W. 31 Decr 1839.</place-time>
<docbody>SAMUEL H. DUVAL Esqr. U.S. Marshal M. Dist. Florida.
SIR, Upon representations being made to the President, that you are in arrears in your accounts with the U. States, an enquiry into the matter was, by his direction, made at the Treasury, from the result of which it appears that, in the adjustment of your accounts, as far as rendered, a balance of over $9000 is due by you. This fact has been reported to the President, by whom I am directed to express to you his opinion, that said balance should be forthwith accounted for as the best answer to any impeachment of your official conduct."—
I am &c.
Signed—John FoRSYTH.
</docbody>
<dochead>PRESENTMENT BY THE GRAND JURY OF FRANKLIN COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.: AC]</source>
<place-time>[December 1839]</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON. RICHARD C. ALLEN Judge of the Superior Court for the District of Apalachicola, West Florida, December Term 1839.
The Grand Jurors of the County of Franklin in retiring from the discharge of the duties which have devolved upon them, cannot refrain from presenting the want of a Court House and Jail as a serious Evil to the public. We are fully aware of the great inconvenience to which the Court is subjected from the want of a suitable building for a Court House, and of the great difficulty of enforcing the laws or preserving public order without a Jail.
The City of Apalachicola being situated at the mouth of a large and navigable River, must always be a place of such commercial im-

portance as to require that a District Court of the United States should be regularly held here even after the Territory shall have become a State, and therefore these buildings will always be required by the General Government. It is understood that the City Council are prepared to convey a suitable lot of land to the General Government, provided an appropriation should be made for this purpose.
The consideration of these facts induces us most respectfully to request our Delegate in Congress. the Hon. Charles Downing, to use all due exertion to procure an appropriation from Congress for the purpose of building a Court House and Jail in this city. In calling the attention of the Court to this subject we would most respectfully request that a copy of this presentment be forwarded to our Delegate in Congress, with such representations from your Honour as you may deem expedient to accomplish this object.
We further call the attention of the Court to the subject of a Marine Hospital at the port of Apalachicola. The Commerce of this port is now large and rapidly increasing, as will be seen by the official returns from the Custom House. Its Foreign, Coasting, and River trade necessarily employs a large number of seamen. In other ports throughout the United States this useful but proverbially improvident class of citizens have been wisely provided for by the erection of Hospitals by Government, to the maintenance of which the wages of the seamen contribute. At the present time, notwithstanding the efforts of the collector to provide for them, sick and disabled seamen suffer from want of accomodations and attendance suited to their enfeebled condition. We deem it unnecessary to speak of the obligation, felt by all, to care for, and supply the wants of seamen whose services to the country in peace or war, are invaluable, and whose disregard of self but adds to the obligation—we therefore, after presenting to the notice of the Court the absence of suitable Hospital accomodations and attendance, and the necessity for their provision, ask such representations from your Honour as may aid the establishment of a Marine Hospital at Apalachicola by Congress.
We also present for consideration the situation of Franklin County in regard to School Lands. The munificience of Government has caused a reserve of a certain quantity of land in each Township throughout the public Lands for the use of schools. This County being located on a private land-claim contains no such reserves, while the rapid increase of population causes the want of a school fund to be seriously felt. Your Honour is therefore requested to notice the subject in your representations to Congress, through our Delegate, with a view to obtain an appropriation of a section of the public lands in the Territory for purposes of education in this county.

In closing, we tender, for ourselves and in behalf of our fellow citizens, thanks for the strict and impartial administration of justice which has been received at your hands—to the District Attorney for the zeal and ability which have characterized the discharge of his duties—and, to the Marshall and other officers of Court, for the attention and energy which mark their official course.
David G. Raney, Foreman. C. Gilbert Tho° W. Brockenbrough James Gibson Wm J. Carr Colin Gardner P. W. Cullen C. G. Holmes A. Hancock W. C. Lawrence David C. Kolb William McKern J. R. Dorsey Ben F. Nourse E. Davis William G. Porter C. H. Dunham Richard G. Porter Thomas J. Ferguson M. L. Taylor.
A copy Attest GEO: F. BALTZELL clk.
[Endorsed] Florida—Court House & jail Franklin County Presentment of Grand Jury of Franklin County, with Judge Allen's letter Dec. 1839 Territories Feb. 6 1840 Ref" to the Committee on the Territories* 26th–Downing court house & jail EXECUTIVE PROCEEDINGS OF FLORIDA TERRITORY *
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>[January 1, 1840—June 29, 1840]</place-time>
The Commission of His Excellency Robert Raymond Reid Governor of Florida” was filled in the Executive Journal on the first day of January 1840–
He was qualified on the Twenty eight day of December 1839 before E. B. Gould Judge of the County Court St Johns County at the City of St Augustine East Florida

The Commission of Joseph McCants Secretary of the Territory of Florida" was filled in the Executive Journal on first day of January
1840
He was qualified before W" M Gibson Judge of the County Court of Leon County in the City of Tallahassee on the Sixteenth day of December 1839
EXECUTIVE OFFICE 5* Jany 1840
In consequence of a probable resistance of the Civil authority orders were this day issued to Capt E. D. Bullock Com" Company E. 2"
Dragoons and Lieu" R. A. Arnold Com" Detachment K. Company
2* Dragoons to afford aid to the Civil officers charged with the execution of certain Warrants."
TALLAHASSEE 5* Jany 1840
Orders Similar to the above were this day issued to Capt Bragen &
Harkley of the City Grays & Gauards On the fifth day of January 1840 His Excellency was called upon by the Justices of the Peace * issuing Warrants for the arrest of Willis Alston" to order the Military to aid the Civil authority in the execution of said Warrants—
TALLAHASSEE 7" Jany 1840
Order No 1
To JOHN B. COLLINS, Quarter Master of the Troops in the Territorial Service SIR/You are hereby requested to take charge of the provisions destined for the use of the Troops in the Service of the Territory of Florida under the Command of Major W" J Bailey and to distribute the same as may be proper making reports of your proceedings—You will also take charge of the Dogs obtained for the use of said Troops and provide for the same as may be necessary ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida Executive Office TALLAHASSEE 7 Jany 1840
Order No 1
TO MAJOR W" J. BAILEY Commanding the Troops for the Service of the Territory of Florida against the hostile Indians SIR You will continue to command the Troops in the service of the Territory as heretofore—You will continue take such measures

generally has may be proper and necessary to give protection to the frontier settlements of Middle Florida ROBERT RAYMOND REID
SECRETARYS OFFICE 10" Jany 40
A Message of the Secretarys of the Territory to the Senate accompanying Eleven Copies of the Compilation of Duval” in compliance with the Resolution of that Body as will appear by reference to page
5 Senate Journal— Executive office TALLAHASSEE 10" Jany 1840
SIR I beg you to accept the appointment of Aid-De-Camp to the Governor, and believe me Very Respectfully Your Most ob S"
ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida TO COL JNO. GRAHAM
Executive office, TALLAHASSEE 10* Jany 1840
SIR I beg you to accept the appointment of Aid-de-Camp to the Governor, and believe me, Very Respectfully Sir Your Mo ob St ROBERT RAYMOND REID
TO COLLESLIE A THOMPSON
SECRETARYS OFFICE 14 Jany 1840."
A Message from the Secretary accompanying 29 Copies of Duvals Compilation to the House of Representatives in compliance with the request of that Body as will appear by reference to page 21 House Journal TALLAHASSEE 14" Jany 1840
$1000.00
CASHIER OF THE UNION BANK OF FLORIDA pay to the order of JOHN B. COLLINS Quarter General of Florida the Sum of One thousand dollars from the funds destined to supply the Troops in the Territorial Service against the Seminole Indians ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida EXECUTIVE OFFICE 14 January 1840
SIR You are hereby appointed Quarter Master General of Florida Very Respectfully Your Mo ob St ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida TO COL JNO. B. COLLINS

EXECUTIVE OFFICE 14" Jany 1840
The quarter Master General authorized to purchase Seven Horses Saddles & Bridles for the use of the Territorial Troops”
14th Colonel John Graham appointed Adj* General of the Militia of Florida
15th Letter to the Honble David L. White declining to grant the prayer of the Petitioner W" Cash *
January 1840
The Governors first Annual Message to the Legislative Council of Florida as will appear by reference to pages 5.6.7.8.9.10.11.12.13.14
of the Senate Journal and pages 9.10.11.12.13.14.15.16.17.18 of the house Journal
15th The Governor transmitted to both Branches of the Legislative Council Copies of a letter and resolution received from the Secretary of State of the United States" as will appear by reference to pages
22 & 23 of the House Journal 16th The Governor wrote to General Taylor" offering him so many Blood Hounds as he might consider would be usefull to him in conducting the War against the Seminole Indians"
A letter to both Houses of the Legislature containing certain nominations"

17
A Message transmitting to the House the report made by Colonel Richard Fitzpatrick especial Agent to Cuba appointed by the Governor of Florida R. K. Call to purchase Blood Hounds reference to pages 1.2.3 in appendix to the House * Executive office TALLAHASSEE 20" January 1840
TO THE HONBLE THE SENATE OF THE TERRITORY OF FLORIDA—
I respectfully submit to you I the Account Current of the Treasurer of Florida II A report of the Treasurer respecting School Lands III A report from the Cashier of the Union Bank *
ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 20" Jany 1840
It is hereby ordered that the Acts of the Legislative Council of Florida be published in the “South Floridan—a Weekly paper published at Key West in Monroe County South Florida ROBERT RAYMOND REID GOV of Florida 90
EXECUTIVE OFFICE 20" January 1840
TO THE HONBLE THE SENATE OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF
FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate Hiram Manly to be Judge of the County Court for the County of Franklin, also L W Smith to be Judge of the County Court of the County of Monroe in place of O. O'Horn"
resigned ROBERT RAYMOND REID Gov of Florida Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 20* Jany 1840
TO THE HONORABLE THE SENATE OF THE TERRITORY OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate Walker Anderson to be Commissioner of the Tallahassee Funds in place of E.G.English resigned ROBERT RAYMOND REID Gov of Florida Note A Message to the House of Representatives was also sent on the 23” ins' containing the nominations in the two Messages above *

Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 21" January 1840
TO THE HONBLE THE SENATE OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF
FLORIDA—
I respectfully transmit to you the statements and report made to me by the Auditor of the Treasury Department ROBERT RAYMOND REID Gov of Florida Note—A Copy of the above was also sent to the House of Representatives A letter from the Executive to the Senate transmitting a Copy of a letter received from the President of the Southern Life Insurance
& Trust Company, a Copy of the above was also sent to the House of Representatives—
22nd A Message from the Executive to the Senate transmitting the Semi Annual Statement of the affairs of the Bank of Pensacola made to the Governor by the President & Cashier of that Institution *
Joseph Branch appointed Aid-de-Camp to the Governor 22" Jany
1840
E. J. Hardin appointed Aid-de-Camp to the Governor 23" Jany
1840
23” Jany 1840
A letter from the Executive to Colonel John Warren" respecting quarter Masters business
24th A letter from the Executive to Colonel Jno B Collins Q Master Genl enclosing an Account against the Territory presented by John Price for investigation and report *
A letter from the Executive to the Legislative Council nominating five persons to be Directors of the Union Bank on the part of the Territory for the ensuing Year "
muskets and ammunition in the Apalachicola arsenal that might be turned over to Florida Territory, which has already overdrawn its quota. The letter is endorsed by the Secretary of War that the arms in question will be turned over to the Territory if the Governor and company officers will accept accountability;
there is a further endorsement by Gov. Reid, Jan. 11, 1839 (1840) that the terms are acceptable.

27th A letter from the Governor to Capt Thomas Langford stating that his request to be received into the Territorial Service would be complied with as soon as that officer was mustered out of the U States Service A letter from the Governor to Capt Redding respecting the misbehaviour of his command *
28th A letter from the Executive to Captain Allen G. Johnson stating that his company would be immediately received into Service
28" January 1840
In compliance with a Resolution of the House of Representatives requesting the Governor to inform the House what Amount of Bonds if any had been signed for the use of the Southern Life Insurance and Trust Company and at what terms the said Bonds were signed naming the date of the Month and Year and if he knows whether said Bonds or any part of them have been disposed of by that corporation Or not.
I have no information respecting the use made of the Bonds by the Bank, how they were signed nor how they have been disposed of except that contained in the Report of the President which has been submitted to you as no Record of the said Bonds was to be found either in the Executive or Secretarys office ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida "
29th A letter from the Governor to General Taylor recommending that he retain the Volunteer Companies in the Service which he had purposed to discharge—
A letter from the Governor to Genl. Taylor enclosing a letter from Mr. Turney "Granger respecting the misconduct of the Volunteers under Capt Redding in the Service of the United States A letter from the Governor to Genl Taylor suggesting the propriety of removing the Post Commanded by Capt Bullock on the Appalachicola River to a point above where he might afford protection to travellers on the public road

29th A letter from the Governor to Colonel John Warren enclosing the report of the Quarter Master General upon the account referred to him for investigation and report
30th A letter from the Governor to the Legislative Council suggesting the propriety of changing the site of the Buildings on Capitol Square A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council communicating the report of the Commissioner of the Tallahassee Fund together with an Account Current—
#A Message from the Governor to the Senate recommending the approval of the nomination of Walker Anderson as Commissioner of the Tallahassee Fund *
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 30" Jany 1840.
$3770.00
The Treasurer of the Territory of Florida pay to R A Shine or order the sum of Three thousand Seven hundred & Seventy dollars from the Tallahassee Fund the said sum being the Value of Materials furnished and certified to me this day ROBERT RAYMOND REID GOV of Florida
30" Jany 1840
An order to Colonel J. B. Collins Q Master General Commanding him by himself or Agent to deliver to Lt G. W. F. Wood ten of the Blood Hounds with two Keepers and take his receipt for the same By ROB RAYMOND REID Gov of Florida
30th Allowed and Certified an Account of S. L. Sibley for One hundred
& twenty five dollars for publishing the Laws of the Session of 1839.”
A letter from the Governor to the Honb" Levi Woodbury Secretary of the Treasury requesting the balance of the appropriation granted by an Act of the Legislature and now in the Treasury of the United States be paid to the Treasurer of the Territory of Florida or his Order"—
3rd February A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council nominating certain persons as Directors on the part of the Territory for the

Southern Life Insurance & Trust Company ” and also Richard Hayward as a Director of the Union Bank on the part of the Territory in place of R. H. Berry whose name has not been consented to—
A letter from the Governor to Capt Alex Jernigan informing him that his company cannot be received into the Territorial Service at this time
3rd Feby 1840
An Order to Col Jno B. Collins Q M General Commanding him to deliver to Major Fauntleroy six dogs with a suitable number of Keepers ROBERT RAYMOND REID Gov. of Flo A pardon was issued by the Governor of Florida to Samuel Paynter who was convicted of an Assult and Battery with intent to kill at the last term of the Superior Court Escambia County
4th A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council approving an Act entitled an Act to alter and fix the time of holding the Superor Court of Walton County"—
A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council nominating Thomas Baltzell to be Commissioner of the Tallahassee fund—
6th A letter from the Secretary of Florida to W. P. Duval Esq informing him that he cannot find in his office any acceptance by the Bank of Pensacola of the amendment to its charter contained in the Act of the 10" February 1838
Feby 7th 1840
An Order to Colonel John B Collins Q Master General to furnish provisions to Capt" Townsend
9th A letter from the Governor to Major W* J Bailey ordering him to take all the Dogs and all the spare force and march towards the Oclockeny and place yourself in such a situation as will enable you to cooperate with Colonel Davenport " on his way to the Apalachicola River
10th A Message from the Governor to the Senate communicating the Resolutions which accompany this Message from the Governor of New Jersey—the question presented is one which must be interesting

wherever the Eletive Franchise is exercised by the people—and deeply effects their rights”
A Message from the Governor transmitting to the House the Resolutions which accompany this Message from the Governor of New Jersey—the question presented is one which must be interesting wherever the Elective Franchise is exercised by the people—and deeply effects their rights A letter from the Governor to the Legislative Council from the President of the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Company and statements accompanying the same
10" Feby 1840
A Message from the Governor to the Senate with a letter from the President of the Southern Life & Trust Company and statements accompanying the same A Message from the Governor to the Senate nominating certain persons for Justices of the Peace Notary Publics & Auctioneers &""
[10" Feby 1840] EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT
SIR Your letter of the 26th December has just been received.” It arrived at S*Augustine after my departure and has been forwarded to me at this place—
The Building is in progress and I have drawn as the Act authorized me to do, in favor of the Treasurer of the Territory for the balance due, a Copy of my letter is herewith enclosed I am Sir Very Respectfully Your ob St ROBERT RAYMOND REID
To HONBLE LEVI WoODBURY Secretary of the Treasury U States
11 th A letter from the Governor to T R Betton Esq for Arms delivered under public orders recommending him to apply for releif to the Legislative Council 12th A letter from the Governor to Adj* & Insp General John Graham to proceed immediately to an inspection of the Posts occupied by the Volunteers.
12” February 1840
Muster into Service Capt Townsend, Capt Johnson Capt Langford Capt Redding Capt Allbritton and their respective Companies."

13th A letter from the Governor to Major W" J Bailey countermanding the order of the 9* Ins" was given upon the supposition that their were few Indians between Tallahassee and the Swaanee
14 th A letter from from the Governor to General Taylor informing him that he has countermanded the order to Major W. J. Bailey above alluded to 17th A Message to the Legislative Council making divers Nominations *
A Proclamation issued by the Governor for the apprehension of King Gill who made his escap from Jackson County Jail"
18th A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council informing that body that he has approved divers acts
2nd A letter from the Governor to Genl Taylor conveying intelligence of Murders recently committed by Indians on the Apalachicola River, inserted here having been omitted in its proper place
2” February 1840
A letter from the Governor to Major Fauntleroy 2" Reg' of Dragoons informing him that the Dogs will be furnished him by the Quarter Master Genl Col Jno B Collins, inserted here having been omitted in its proper place
19th A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council containing numerous nominations *
Executive Dept TALLAHASSEE 20" Feby 1840
SIR You are hereby appointed Pay Master General of the Territory of Florida I am Sir Very Respectfully Your Mo ob St ROBERT RAYd REID Govr of Florida TO COL R. H BERRY
A letter to Capt Townsend advising him to retain a part of his Command at Fort Marion from the Governor—

A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council approving Certain Acts
20" February 1840
A letter from the Governor to Captain Thigpin in reply to an application to be received into the Service of the Territory with his Company and informing him that he cannot be received at this time
24th An Order from the Governor to the Quarter Master General F. M.
to pay to M' J W. Childs the sum of fifty dollars the same being for a Dog purchased from him for the use of the Territory by R K Call Governor
25th A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council calling the attention of that body to the 2.3 & 4* Sections of an Act intitled an Act to provide for building the Capital and for other purposes
26th Alfred L. Woodward appointed Aid-de-Camp to the Governor of Florida A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council making numerous nominations”
A Message to the Legislative Council from the Governor signifying his approval of Certain Acts & his disapproval of others Memorandum On the 14" February 1840 a check was issued to Col. J. B. Collins Q Master General Fla Ma for the Sum of Twelve thousand dollars—
On the 17* Febry 1840 a check was issued to Col J B. Collins Q
Master General Fla Ma for the Sum of Five thousand dollars On the 25* February 1840 a check was issued to the Pay Master Gen' Col R. H Berry Fla Ma for the sum of four thousand Six hundred
& Seventy Nine dollars & 50/100
On the 27* Feby 1840, a check was issued to Col J B. Collins Q M*
General for One thousand dollars Receipts for the above Amounts are on file in the Secretarys Office
25th Feby A letter from the Governor to John G. Gamble requesting him to furnish a copy of the account of the Territory with the Union Bank over which he presides
26th A letter from the Governor to the Honb" Levi Woodbury Secretary of the Treasury U.S requesting him to place as far as possible a favor-

able consideration upon the application of the President of the Senate
& Speaker of the House for double proliem.”
27* February 1840
A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council making certain nominations*
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 27* Feby 1840
$3050.00
The Treasurer of the Territory of Florida pay to R A Shine or order the sum of Three thousand & fifty dollars from the Tallahassee Fund the same being the Value of Materials furnished & certified to me this day ROB RAYd REID GOV of Florida
28th A letter from the Governor to the Treasurer of the Territory giving him certain directions—
A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council approving certain Acts—
29th A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council nominating certain persons for certain offices"—
A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council suggesting a plan of operations against the Seminole Indians in the Territory of Florida as will appear by references to Pages 99.100 101 & 102 Senate Journal & pages 168. 169 170. & 171 of the House Journal”
2nd March 1840
A Message from the Governor making certain nominations to the Legislative Council *—
A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council approving certain Acts A Message from the Governor to the Legislative Council approving certain Acts and disapproving an Act enlarging the Jurisdiction of the County Court of Hillsborough County Issued this 2" of March 1840 a check for Two thousand dollars to Col R H Berry Paymaster General by R. R. Reid Gov. of Florida A letter from the Governor to General Taylor respecting the exposed condition of Columbia County

A letter from the Governor to General Taylor relative to an Order which had been issued to Major W. J. Bailey, commanding him to render assistance to Col Davenport &c
3rd A letter from the Governor to Col J B. Collins QM Gen' respecting Capt Mosher's claims
3rd March 1840
Buckingham Smith has been this day appointed to Copy the Laws of the Legislative Council for 1840 and also to make an Index to the same by ROBERT, RAYd REID
4th Isaac Ferguson Jr is appointed Aid-de-Camp to the Governor of Florida A letter from the Governor to the Tresurer of the Territory relative to funds appropriated for Public Building
2nd It is ordered that the Laws of the Territory of Florida be published in the Florida Herald, & Southern Democrat in the Floridian in the Apalachicola Gazette the Pensacola Gazetter and South Floridian *
and that Warrants do immediately issue to the publishers of each and evry of these papers by ROB RAYMOND REID GOV of Florida
4th A letter from the Governor of Florida to the Governor of the State of New Jersey enclosing a report of a Committee of the House of Representatives of the Legislative Council of Florida upon the resolutions of the State of New Jersey which were enclosed to the Governor of Florida by Gov Pennington
6th March 1840
A letter from the Governor to Gen" Taylor relative to the payment of such of the Liechmen as were employed in the United States Service to take care of the Blood Hounds—
A letter from the Governor to Col J. B. Collins Q Master General requesting him to call the attention of Col Gamble to the arrangement made by him with the late Governor R. K. Call for the negotication of Bonds to the amount of One hundred thousand dollars, the above named Col Gamble is President of the Union Bank of Florida A letter from the Governor to Thomas Brown Auditor &" asking information relative to the returns of Charles Rubio Auctioneer of St Johns County

9th A letter from the Governor to General Taylor requesting him to receive the Troops now in the Service of the Territory into the Service of the United States
10th A letter from the Governor to Lt Col W" J. Bailey countermanding an order given sometime since Commissioners appointed this day by the Governor to examine and report to him the condition of the Bank of the Southern Life Insurance
& Trust Company at S*Augustine and the Branch thereof at Jacksonville in compliance with the Resolution of the United States Senate"
10th I have this day audited the account presented me by Col B. T.
Whitner for miscellaneous printing at the Star office up to the 25"
February 1840 and find due upon the same the sum of One thousand
& ninety One dollars & thirty four cents for which the usual certificate will be issued
11th March 1840
ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida
11th A proclamation issued by the Governor for the appnsion of Bill alias Jack a Negro who made his escape from Leon County Jail
13th A letter from the Governor to General Taylor informing him of appointing Major E. E. Blackburn Florida Mounted Volunteers—
14
A letter from the Governor nominating E. R Gibson Gab J. Floyd, Hiram Manly & Walker Anderson as Commissioners to examine and report the condition of the Agency of the Union Bank at St Joseph & the Agency of the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Company at each of the above places and also the Condition of the Lake Wimicoe &
S" Joseph Canal & R. Road Company
17th March 1840
A letter from the Governor to the Honble Joseph Irwin respecting the apprehension of Yost for the supposed Murder of Roberts, requiring that proof under Oath that Yost has fled from Justice previous to a proclamation being issued

making a copy of the Acts and Resolutions of the Legislative Council for the use of the printer, the sum of Three hundred dollars; for making an index and marginal notes for the same Laws, One hundred dollars, also Sixty Six dollars & Sixty Six cents for services as private Secretary of the Governor the whole drawn upon the United States
17th A letter from the Governor to Colonel John G. Gamble relative to the Negotiation of Bonds for $100,000 made by Gov R. K. Call
17 th A letter from the Governor to General Taylor requesting that orders may be given for the payment of the Liechmen employed in the United States Service to take charge of the Blood Hounds
17
A letter from the Governor to the President of the United States enclosing certain Resolutions and a Message to which he invites the attention of that functionary 17th March 1840
A letter from the Governor to Joel R. Poinsett Secretary of the Department of War enclosing certain resolutions of the Legislative Council"—
17th A letter from the Governor to Charles Downing Delegate from Florida containing certain resolutions
19th A letter to the Honble J. K. Paulding from the Governor respecting Warrants which have issued for Midshipmen from Florida to persons who from the residence of their families and themselves elsewhere were not entitled to them asking a list of Midshipmen appointed from Florida.”

Services and subsistence as may be presented to them in East Florida and to report upon them as soon as possible to the Executive Department
30th March 1840
A letter from the Governor to Major Garrison in reply to a letter of the 18" Ins" received from him informing him that instructions had been given to the Adjutant Gen' to adopt such measures as he may deem expedient for the protection of the County of Alachua in which he Major Garrison resides
30th A letter from the Governor to the Adju" Genrl Fla Ma. ordering him to adopt such measures as he may consider necessary for the protection of the settlers in the East
30th A letter from the Governor to Colonels Warren & Long presiding officers of the Legislative Council informing them that he is authorized to allow them double per diem during the period for which that body was in Session
31 st A letter from the Governor to Lt Col W J. Bailey informing him that complaints have reached the Executive Department against Captain Burneys Company and ordering him to examine into the Matter
31 st A letter from the Governor to the Honble Levi Woodbury Secretary Treasury U.S giving him information relative to the progress of the public Buildings in Florida *
1 April A letter from the Governor to Colol Jno Graham ordering him to aid Major Garrison in forming & presenting to Genl Taylor the companies he requires for Service 2nd April 1840
A letter from the Governor to Col W. J. Miles informing him that he has ordered the Adju" General to assist Major Garrison in organizing and presenting the Companies wanted by Genl Taylor for Service
2nd A letter from the Governor to General Taylor informing him that he will endeavour to comply with his request to furnish five companies required to aid in defence of the Settlements—"

3rd A letter from the Governor to General Taylor suggesting to him (in consequence of letters received from the east) the propriety of stationing a Company of Volunteers at Mandarin, another on the North River and a third in Thigpins neighbourhood in Nassau County"
9th A letter from the Governor to the Delegate from Florida accompanying preambles and Resolutions passed at the last Session of the Territorial Legislature."
17
A letter from the Governor to L' Col W.J. Bailey stating that the decision to which Major Blackburn upon due investigation of certain charges against Cap" Burneys Company found it necessary to come is approved EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT 18 April 1840 The following is a list of certificates issued by the Governor to printers and others Certificate to B.T. Whitner for printing $1091.34
& 4 & 4 & 4 & 4 44 269. 70
& 4 s & & 4 & 4 & 4 251. 17
& 4 “SS Sibley 44 46 975. 00
& 4 44 & 4 4 & & 4 501. 00
Certificate to W* Wilson for Stationary &" furnished the Senate 692. 65
Certificate to do do for Stationary &" furnished the House 1377.17
Certificate to Mosses Ellis for Servant hire for the House-- 50.00
Certificate to B. F. Whitner issued for printing Journal of the House 1207.50
Certificate to do for Journal of Senate 794. 50
Certificate to T. Toole" for Stationary &c furnished the Legislative Council * 119.25
18th April 1840
A letter from the Governor to His Excellency Martin Van Buren President of the United States" accompanying such information

relative to corporations as has been obtained in compliance of the Resolution of the United States Senate of the 30" December 1839 |
20th A letter from the Governor authorizing the Q Master General to sell the four Horses which were purchased for the use of the Keepers of the Blood Hounds—
20th A letter from the Governor to Brigr Gen" Taylor enclosing receipts given for Blood Hounds & other property
20th A letter from the Governor to General Taylor containing an Extract from a letter received from a Gentleman who resides on North River East Florida and repeating the suggestion of the propriety of establishing a post at Mandarin and another on that River”
21 st A letter from the Governor to Col Robert Brown 12" Reg' F.M. informing him that commissioners had been appointed to attend to the business to which his letter refers—
21" April A letter from the Governor to Messrs Wilson & Lavinas requesting them to examine the Materials for public Building deposited since the last Valuation and report the Value thereof to him—
21
A letter from the Governor to Capt Roberts informing him that his company cannot at present be received into the Service of the Territory
23
A letter from the Governor to the Honble Jno Forsyth Secretary of State of the US "Containing information called for by a resolution of the United States Senate of the 30" December 1839* 23rd A letter from the Governor to Capt Neighbours requesting him to offer his company of Volunteers when complete to Gen.'
Taylor for acceptance into the Service of the United States—
23rd A letter from the Governor to Gen" Taylor informing him that he has ordered Capt Neighbours to report himself to the officer commanding the US Forces in Florida for Service

30
A letter from the Secretary of Florida to the Honb" Jno Forsyth.” accompanying the report of the Bank of Pensacola and the Rail Road connected with that Institution by Law as called for by the resolution of the Senate of the U States 30 Decr 1839—"
5 May 1840 A letter from the Governor to the Cashier of the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Compy expressing a desire to negotiate Bonds to the Amount of Twenty five thousand dollars The Bonds are such as have been sold to the Bank heretofore and the wish is to negotiate them upon the same terms
5th Issued this day by the Governor a check to John B. Collins, Esq—
Q Master General on the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Company for Five Thousand dollars
$5,000.00
5th A letter from the Governor to Colonel Jno Graham Adj* & Inspr Genl, Commanding him to cause the proceedings of a Court Martial assembled for the trial of Capt Langford to be placed on file in his office and to issue the proper order for relieving Capt Langford from his arrest
5th A letter from the Governor to L* Col Wm. J Bailey ordering him in consequence of information received from Iola to send some men under command of an officer for the protection of that place
7th An order from the Governor to the Tresurer of the Territory Thomas H Austin to pay to Thomas Baltzell Commissioner of the Tallahassee Fund, five thousand dollars $5,000.00
7th May 1840
A letter from the Governor to the Honble Jno Forsyth Secretary of State" enclosing reports of Commissioners appointed by the Governor to examine and report to him the condition of certain corporations in Florida
12th A letter from the Governor to Col° Charles L. Dill A D.C authorizing him to raise two companies of Horsemen for the protection of the frontier

12th A letter from the Governor to Major Isaac Garrison informing him that his Aid-De-Camp Col° Charles L. Dill is authorized to raise two companies for the protection of the frontier—
A letter from the Governor giving the above information to a committee of the citizens of Alachua"—
9th A letter from the Governor to the Honble Joel R. Poinsett Secretary of War containing information relative to the present state of the Territory and suggesting the change in the system which have been pursued in the management of this war"—
14th A letter from the Governor to Messrs D.F. Wilson & J.W. Levinas informing them that their account for measurement on the Capitol has been received and that as he made no contract whatever with them he has referred the account to the Commissioner of Public Building for investigation & report
8" May 1840 Tallahassee Branch S.L.Ins. & Trust Company This may certify that on the 12" day of February 1840 I received from Robert Raymond Reid Governor of the Territory of Florida Twenty five Territorial Bonds for One thousand dollars each, dated
10" Feby 1840 and payable on the 1* July 1850 bearing interest at Eight p Centum p Annum—And I further certify that I have this day received from Governor Reid aforesaid Twenty five Territorial Bonds of One thousand dollars each dated 1" May Ins' payable first of July 1850 and bearing interest at the rate of eight p Centum p Annum the whole amount of which Bonds to wit Fifty thousand dollars was passed to the credit of the said R.R.Reid Governor on the Books of this Company One half on the 12" day of February aforementioned and the other on this day J WILLIAMS Cashier
14th A letter from the Governor to the Commissioner of the Tallahassee Fund" enclosing a letter from Mess Wilson & Levinas with a copy of his reply to the same and asking him to investigate their claim and report his opinion upon the propriety of paying them

14th A letter from the Governor to Col Graham Adj' & Inspr General respecting the injudicious locality of posts in west Florida
14" May 1840
A letter from the Governor to Col Jno. Graham Adj" & Inspr General F.M. ordering him to obtain forthwith returns from the several Volunteer Companies in the Service with the number and names of their officers and places where stationed
14th A letter from the Governor to L* Col F.L. Dancey authorizing him to raise two companies of Mounted Men for the protection of the settlements South of East of St Johns
- 14th A letter from the Governor to Col John M Fontane A.D.C ordering him to inquire whether a Mounted Company be necessary for the protection of Nassau County and convey his opinion as speedily as possible to the Executive of the Territory
16th A letter from the Governor to the President of the United States and to the Delegate from Florida enclosing copies of the Acts and resolutions of the Legislative Council of Florida for 1840"—
18th A letter from the Governor to Major E.E. Blackburn ordering him to repair to Mariana and after consulting with Colonels Pittman &
Woodward take such measure as will be necessary and proper for the safety of the Frontier
18th May 1840
A letter from the Governor to Col. D. Pittman informing him that Major Blackburn is ordered to Mariana to consult with himself and Col Woodward respecting measures necessary to be taken for the protection of the frontier
21st A letter from the Governor to Peter Condillary Esqr informing him that his claim has been referred to the QM General” who will give it proper attention
21st A letter from the Governor to the Q M General referring the above account to his attention—
in NA (SD, Misc. Letters).

23rd A pardon from the Governor to King Parker Esq who was convicted at the Superior Court in the County of Calhoun of carrying unlawful Arms secritly on and about his person
26
A letter from the Governor to Major Blackburn calling his attention to the locality of posts in the Middle district of Florida and ordering him to take measures to remedy the inconvenience of their injudicious location—
26
A letter from the Governor to Col Jno. B. Collins QM Gen' calling his attention to the appropriation of the public stores at Camps Call & Hamilton
27th May 1840
A pardon from the Governor to P. Duval Esq. who was convicted at the May term of the Superior Court for the western district of Florida of an assult and Battery found Guilty and fined
28th A letter from the Governor to Editor of the Quincey Sentinel requesting him to publish in his paper all orders and proclamations emanating from the Executive of the Territory
28th A letter from the Governor to the Editor of the St Joseph Times requesting him to publish in his paper all orders and proclamations emanating from the Executive of the Territory”
1** June 1840
A letter from the Governor to the citizens of Iola in reply to a petition for protection from that quarter
2nd An order from the Governor to his Aid de Camps" in the East ordering them to raise five hundred Men half Mounted half on foot for the protection of the Country East of the Suwanee giving them a statement of the organization of the companies for each service"
2nd A letter from the Governor to Gen' Armstead informing him of the reception of his requisition for 1000 Men for the protection of the Country East & West of the Suwanne

3rd June 1840
A letter from the Governor to Col Jno Graham Adj" & Inspect Gen' F M. ordering him to take measures to ascertain the numerical force of the Militia of the Territory distinguishing between the Militia actually in Service and that portion not in the Service of the U States or the Territory and cause returns to be made from the Brig. Generals of all Officers and Staff to you and also to ascertain when arms are wanting to the Militia that an effort may be made to supply them—
3rd A letter from the Governor to Luke Lott Esq advising him of the receipt of his letter and stating that an effort will be made to furnish arms to himself and neighbours for their mutual protection
4th A letter from the Governor to Col Jno B. Collins, Q M Gen.'
informing him that he is authorized to say that tho we have no other funds than Union Bank Bills at present on hand such assurances have been received from Washington as to leave no doubt on the mind of the Governor that debts properly contracted for the Territorial Service will be paid in US funds
4 th A letter from the Governor to T H Austin Esq Treasurer of the Territory enclosing a check for Three thousand two hundred & twenty eight dollars & fifteen cents to enable him to pay the Interest on the Military debt of the Territory 5th June 1840
A letter from the Governor to Col W.J. Bailey suggesting the proprity of sending a considerable force in pursuit of a Band of Creek Warriors in the direction of St Andrews Bay—
5th A letter from the Governor to Col Jno B Collins Q M General disapproving of the report of the Q M* Department on charges preferred against Q M Perry & L Walker
5th A letter from the Governor to Col Robert Brown informing him that Agents cannot be again sent to collect proofs and Evidences in substantiating his claims against the Territory at present
5th A letter from the Governor to Colonel John Graham Adj" & Insp General ordering the release of L' Holt from arrest
6th A letter from the Governor to the Honble Joel R. Poinsett Secretary of War informing him that the instructions which he stated he had

given to General Armstead that the Governor would proceed to organize the 1000 Men 500 foot and as many Horsemen—and suggesting the inefficiency of as well as the impractibillity of raising footmen"
7 th A letter from the Governor to Gen' Armstead informing him of the reception of his requisition and his endeavour to comply therewith 9th June 1840
Issued this ninth day of June a check for the Southern Life Insurance
& Trust Company for Four thousand dollars $4000. to Col J B. Collins QM General Fla Ma by the Governor ROB RAYd REID
9th A letter from the Governor to the QM General Fla Ma ordering him to send in the accounts of his office that they may be transmitted to the Secretary of War
9th A letter from the Governor to Col R. H. Berry Pay Master General F. M ordering him to send in the accounts of his office that they may be transmitted to the Secretary of War—
9th A letter from the Governor to General Armstead informing him that Capt Masson's Company can form no part of the 1000 Men he is required to raise and organize from the Territory for the Service of the U. States
11th Issued this day a draft under the appropriation by Legislative Council to R. H. Berry Esqr for five hundred & Sixty eight dollars &
fifty cents for arms furnished the Territory"—
12th June 1840
A letter from the Governor to F L. Dancey appointing him Liu'
Colonel and informing him that L' Co"W" J. Bailey has been appointed Colonel and Major E. E. Blackburn continues to hold the Commission of Major and suggesting the names of persons who you would like to place in command of companies ordered to be raised East of the Suwanee *
15th
. A letter from the Governor to Col Alfred A Fisher accepting his resignation as Col of the 7" Reg' Fla. Ma.

15th A letter from the Governor to Col Jno. Graham Adj" & Inspr General Fla Ma enclosing the resignation of A A. Fisher Col of the
7th reg" 18
17th A letter from the Governor to Capt Bullock 2" Dragoons U. S.
requesting the use of Interpreter to communicate with the Indian prisoners captured by Col W* J Bailey
17 th A letter from the Governor to Col J B Collins Q Mr Genl Fla Ma requesting him to send an Express and four Men from Capt Olivers Company to Capt Bullocks station on the Apalachicola— 17th A letter from the Governor to Luke Lott Esqr informing him that arrangements have been made to procure Muskets for Capt Arnaws Company
17th June 1840
A letter from The Governor to L" Williamson requesting him to furnish Sixty five Muskets and their accoutrements for the use of Capt Arnaws Company for which the usual bond and Security will be given if required
17
A letter from the Governor to Capt. Arnaw enclosing a letter to the officer commanding the US Arsenals at Chattachoocie 17th A letter from the Governor to Col W. J Bailey relative to the injudicious selection of Capt Bowies” station West of the Apalachicola River Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 21 June 1840
SIR I offer to your acceptance the Appointment of Aid de Camp to the Governor of Florida & I am Sir Very Respectfully Your ob S"
ROBERT RAYMOND REID
To J. B. COLE Esq A letter from the Governor to Gen' Armstead expressing a desire to transfer the Troops in the Service of the Territory to that of the U States and also recommending that U States Troops might not be withdrawn from this side of the Suwanne

Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 23” June 1840
SIR/Perceiving in one of the prints of this City an intimation, that injustice has been by the Executive of the Territory both to the public and the contractors for the public Buildings in the appropriation of the Tallahassee Fund: I have to request you to say if there has been any cause of complaint on your part, and whether the building is not now in such a state of forwardness as to justify the expectation that it will be ready for the accommodation of the Legislative Council at its next Annual Session If there be any transaction in connection with this fund which you believe to be improper—You will have the goodness to state it and the circumstances at large—
If I know myself, my only motive of official conduct is the desire to inforce the Laws and to do justice to every man I am Sir Very Respectfully Your ob S"
R SHINE Esq ROBERT RAY" REID
The like letter was sent to Capt Levinas
25" June 1840
A letter from the Governor to Capt Burney ordering him to send Ten Men with ten days provisions on Detached Service—
25th A letter from the Governor to Major Fauntleroy informing him that the Indian prisoners captured by Col W. J Bailey will be immediately offered to Gen' Armstead
27 th Issued this day a check in favor of Colonel John B. Collins for fifteen hundred dollars on the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Company * By the Governor ROB RAY" REID
29th An Order from the Governor to Colonel J. B. Collins Q Mr Gen' to furnish Capt" Arnaw with ammunition
29th A letter from the Governor to General Armstead informing him of Col Baileys return from a Scout with ten Indian prisoners which will be delivered to whomsoever he may appoint to receive them

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXX]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE W 34 Jany 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>R. R. REID Gov. of Florida.
SIR, A resolution of the Senate,” of which I enclose a Copy, has, by the President, been referred to this Department, with instructions, that you should be directed, with all possible expedition, to furnish the information necessary to a compliance with its requirements.
You will, accordingly, on the receipt of this, collect all the information called for by said resolution, and transmit it to this Department at as early a day as possible.”
I am &c.
Signed—JOHN FORSYTH.
ERASMUS D. BULLOCK TO GOVERNOR REID
[FSL: Terr. Govt. Let. Bk.:M*]
TALLAHASSEE, M.F: Jany. 5" 1840.
GOVERNOR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's communication of this evening addressed to myself and Lieut R. A. Arnold commanding a detachment of K Troop 2" Dragoons,” in which you make a requisition upon this command for assistance to the civil Authority in apprehending Willis Alston.” In reply I must inform you that I am compelled by a sense of duty to decline ordering upon this duty any portion of my own Troop or of the detachment of K Troop, which is now subject to my controll.
In refusing to accede to your Excellency's wishes on this point I deem it proper to inform you that the instructions from the commanding General admit of no delay on my part and also to inform you, that the Soldiers of the regular army, cannot be called upon to enforce the mandates of the civil authority until that authority has been set at defiance. I beg leave to remark that in the present instance such is in no respect the case and I trust that your Excellency will acknowledge the propriety of my conduct.”
I have the honor to be Your Most Ob’t Ser’t ED BULLOCK Capt. 2" Dragoons Com’g District TO HIS EXCELLENCY R. R. REID. Tallahassee, M.F.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ZACHARY TAYLOR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>January 10, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL Z. TAYLOR Tallahassee, Florida.
GENERAL, From the enclosed copy of a letter this day addressed to the Mayor of St Augustine, you will perceive that your letter of the
29" Ultimo has been received,” and that your delaying to comply with the order on the subject of mustering into the service the force which he had permission to raise, is approved. The Department being satisfied with the precautions taken by you for the protection of the country adjacent to S' Augustine, that order is countermanded.
Hereafter no force will be authorized unless deemed necessary by you.”
J. R. P.
|Enclosure]
The Secretary of War to F. L. Dancy January 10, 1840.
F. L. DANCY Esquire Mayor of S." Augustine, S*Augustine, Florida.
SIR, When by my letter of the 17" ultimo,” I acquiesced in your application to be permitted to raise a company of mounted men for the defence of the country adjacent to S' Augustine, I was not aware of the ample measures taken by General Taylor for that purpose. A
letter has just been received from him, from which it appears that the force in that quarter was quite large, and has been increased since the recent murders near S" Augustine, and that he has taken other and efficient steps for the Security of that part of the country, so that the force proposed to be raised by you, will be quite unnecessary. In view of these facts, and of the obligations resting upon the Department to keep the expenditures in Florida within the smallest possible compass, consistent with its duty of affording adequate protection to the Country, I feel called upon to withdraw the permission given you to raise the force, and to countermand the orders which were given to have it mustered into the service, which has been done.
J. R. P.

</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM S. FULTON  TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., F 18%:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON January 11" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>THE HON" J R POINSETT, SIR, I have received a letter from Gov" Call, asking for the reasons for his removal from the Office of Governor of Florida." He seems to consider his removal as designed to disgrace him. I am satisfied he is mistaken in this, and will thank you for such explanations on the subject as may enable me to satisfy him on this point. I will be tankful to you also for such other explanations as you feel justified in giving me.
I am most respectfully Your Ob"S"
Wm S. FULTON.
[Addressed] The Hon" J.R. Poinsett. Secretary of War Washington city. Free Present
[Endorsed] F18 1/2. Jany 31, 1840 War Dep Ans" 18 Jan 1840 *
File W.D.
</docbody>
<dochead>SAMUEL H. DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>OFFICE OF MAR. Mid. Dist Florida TALLAHASSEE Jan' 12" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. By the same mail with this in answer to your letter of 31"
instant,” I transmit accounts to the Treasury shewing the U.S. are indebted to me several thousand dollars *—I have advanced the expenses of the last Fall Term of the Courts of this District out of my own purse—I will not repeat the reasons which have caused much to my mortification the delay in forwarding my accounts; as I trust their being now sent will be satisfactory to his Excellency the President *
I am with great respect Your obt Servant SAM H DUVAL M
HON JN° FORSYTH Secy of State Washington D.C.

[Addressed] To Honble John Forsythe Secretary of State Washington City D.C. [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo. Jan. 13 1840 Free
[Endorsed] Rec" 30 Jany Mr Dickins THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO THOMAS H. BENTON
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Jany. 14" 1840.</place-time>
HON: THO" H. BENTON U.S. Senate SIR; In answer to your note of the 12" instant (received yesterday)*
asking information relative to the number of Seminole Indians killed, wounded, taken and removed since the Senate's Resolution of December 29" 1837,” offered by the Hon. Mr Davis,” I hasten to furnish the desired information, as far as can be derived from the records of this office.
By the reports received from the commanding General in Florida, subsequent to the report from this office, dated January 27" 1838,”
in answer to the Resolution of the Senate of December 29" 1837, it appears that 210 Indians, Indian negroes, women and children have been killed by the army, 558 have been removed and 15 warriors killed.
It is however proper to state, that, on application to the Indian Bureau, I have just been informed by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs that from December 1" 1837, to November 25" 1839, 2104
Indians have been removed from Florida to the Western country.—
I am sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xxx]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE W. 17 Jan 1840</place-time>
<docbody>[Blank] REID Esq Gov. of Florida;
SIR, I transmit to you a letter for Judge Marvin of the District of South Florida," calling upon him for an explanation of certain charges set forth in the accompanying papers." Judge Marvin's appointment was made during the recess of the Senate, and for a time ending

with the present Session of Congress.” As it is the intention of the President not to submit his nomination to the Senate for a permanent appointment, until a satisfactory explanation shall have been received from him, it is desirable that he lose no time in affording it; and he is directed to send it through your hands to this Department.”
I am &c.
Signed—JOHN FORSYTH.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WILLIAM S. FULTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>January 18" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HON W. S. FULTON Senate.
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 11." Instant," requesting, in consequence of a communication from Governor Call, to know the reasons of his removal.
They are partly contained in the accompanying copy of a letter addressed by me to the President," and partly in the declaration made by Governor Call in his letter to General Nelson, dated September the 5" 1839," in which he avows his intention to use his best efforts to provide for an Army to Act under the Authority of the Territory—a measure which never could be acquiesced in by the Government You will perceive from these reasons that, no disgrace was attached to his removal—He thought proper to assume an attitude opposed to this Department, and his continuance in Office, was, therefore, deemed incompatible with the interests of the public service."
J. R. P.
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE F* 19" Jany 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>DR SIR, I think it important that an agency should be established here, for the disbursement of public moneys appropriated for the Government of the Territory. Such an authority in prudent hands

cannot fail to be usefully exercised both to the Territory & the U.S.
& money will be saved by it.
Should you think with me; I beg leave to recommend General John P. Duval as the Agent. His prudence and economy make him a suitable person for such an appointment.
Very respectfully Y friend & Serv"
ROBERT RAYMOND REID
HON. J. FORSYTH Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Rec" 3 Feby Mr Dickins JAMES WHITCOMB TO DELEGATE DOWNING
<source>[NA:GLO, Preemption Bur., Lets. Sent, Bk. 9]</source>
<place-time>January 22" 1840.</place-time>
HON C DOWNING House of Reps U.S.
SIR In reply to your letter of the 18" Inst" enclosing an extract from one to you written by M. James Livingston, I have the honor to state that the unsettled state of the boundary line between Florida
& Georgia has prevented the entry of any of the Land along said line either by preemption or otherwise, but that settlers will be protected in their rights by the Act of 14 July 1832" which grants the privilege where the land has been reserved from sale on account of a disputed boundary between a State and Territory of making proof and entry at any time within one year after such disability is removed This privilege extends to those claiming under the provisions of the several Laws of 1830.50 183451 & 1838.”
I am with much respect Your obd" Sert JA* WHITCOMB Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE TERRITORIAL SENATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:Pr.]</source>
<place-time>[January 23, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas this Senate did, on the 23d day of January, A. D. 1840, in accordance with the suggestions contained in the annual message of the Executive, and moreover in obedience to the known wishes of

the people of Florida, unanimously adopt the following joint resolutions, to wit:
RESOLUTIONS.
Resolved, by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That a joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives be appointed in such manner as the respective houses may deem proper, which said committee shall consist of three members from each house to examine and inspect the books of the Union Bank of Florida, containing the rules, regulations, ordinances and proceedings of said bank, so as to ascertain the names of the stockholders, the number of shares owned by each, and the amount lent to each on pledge of stock, the names of the Directors, and the amount due by each on pledge of stock, on mortgage of land and slaves, and on other securities—the amount of Territorial bonds actually sold, how sold, and for what funds—the total amount of bills and notes lying over and under protest—the total amount of bills in suit—what amount has the bank in its vaults, and what steps have been taken towards a resumption of specie payments at an early day, the amount of cash on hand, the amount of notes in circulation, the balance due to and from other banks, the amount of deposites, the amount of bills, notes, or bonds discounted, and all other affairs of said bank, so as to know its true situation, and be enabled to make a true report thereof to the Legislative Council, as far as may be, without examing the individual accounts of the customers of the said bank, and also that said committee have leave to employ one or two competent clerks, and that said committee be empowered to send for persons and papers, and to administer an oath to all persons whom they may see fit to examine in relation to the affairs of said bank.
Resolved, That the Governor of the Territory be, and he is hereby requested to appoint a commissioner, not a member of either House, to proceed to Pensacola, to examine fully into the management of the Bank of Pensacola, and to make report thereof, to the Governor, for the information of the Legislative Council.
Resolved, That a joint committee of one from the Senate and one from the House of Representatives, be appointed in such manner as the respective houses may deem proper, to proceed without delay to St. Augustine, there to inspect the books and minutes of proceedings of the board of Trustees of the Southern Life Insurance and Trust Company—to ascertain the amount of deposits therein—an exact list of balances due to and from said body politic and corporate, and all other affairs effecting the credit and solvency of the said body politic and corporate—and that said committee be instructed to make report as speedily as possible.

Resolved, That the Commissioner appointed by the Governor to examine into the affairs of the Bank of Pensacola, be allowed such compensation as may be deemed reasonable by the Governor, not exceeding 200 dollars—and that the members of the joint committee, appointed to examine into the affairs of the Southern Life Insurance and Trust Company, be allowed the same compensation which is allowed by act of Congress to members of the Legislative Council, for travelling to and from St. Augustine, to be paid out of the Territorial Treasury.
Said joint resolutions were, on the 24th day of the same month, transmitted by the Secretary to the House of Representatives of the Legislative Council of Florida, for their action thereon: and whereas this Senate have not, up to the present day, (being the last day of its present session) received from the said House of Representatives any response upon the subject of the said joint resolutions, therefore, Be it known to the people of Florida, That this Senate holds itself absolved from any reproach which attaches to the Legislative Council for failing to cause to be made a free, full, thorough and impartial investigation into the state and condition of all the banking institutions of the Territory, and thereby setting at defiance the will of the people.”
</docbody>
<dochead>ZACHARY TAYLOR TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reservation File, Box 14:C]</source>
<place-time>Head Quarters Army of the South, FORT FANNING, F., January 27, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In the present state of the war the depot at the Cedar Keys, now in course of completion, is of great importance, as from it, by means of Steam boats penetrating the Suwannee and other rivers which empty into the Gulf, the Several military posts in Middle, and most of those in East Florida west of the St. John's river can better be Supplied than from any other point. These Keys have never yet been Surveyed and offered for Sale and therefore not Subject to entry, but settlements on them may be attempted with the view to future claims, and it being highly important that citizens should be excluded from them during the continuance of operations, I have to request that they be reserved for Military purposes. The outer Key of the group the Government should retain, as on it will no doubt be erected, at some future time, a light house for the benefit of vessels trading to the Suwannee River.

I have respectfully to request that this communication may be laid before the Secretary of War.”—
I am, Sir, very respectfully, Your obedient Servant, (Signed) Z. TAYLOR, Bvt. Brig. General U. S. A., Comd’g.
TO, BRIG. GEN'L R. JONES, Adjt. Gen’l U.S.A., Washington, D.C.
[Endorsed] (C.) Brig. General Z. Taylor, Comd’g Army of the South, to The Adjutant General—dated January 27, 1840. Recommending that Cedar Keys be reserved for Military purposes. Copy for Secretary of War, Respectfully furnished. A.G. office, Aug. 11, 1845.
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO GEORGE W. COLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Reg. and Rec., Bk. 12]</source>
<place-time>28 January 1840 GEO. W. COLE, Esq. Manchester Chesterfield Co. Virg"</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate has appointed you to be Receiver of public Moneys at S*Augustine, Florida,”—
You will therefore be pleased to enter into a bond with one or more good and sufficient securities, in the penalty of Thirty thousand dollars, and take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and faithfully to perform the duties of your Office.
The sufficiency of the security is a fact to be certified by the United States' District Judge, or Attorney, whose Certificate, with your Oath of Office, is to be endorsed on the bond, a form for which is enclosed. So soon as executeded agreeably to the formalities prescribed the bond is to be handed to the Register, who, agreeably to the usual practice, will deliver your commission.”
I am, Very Respectfully, Sir, Your Obt Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Commissioner.
P. S. The regulations of the Department require that the Christian names of the various obligors be written out in full in the body of the bond, and their respective places of residence stated—the date of its execution inserted, and water seals affixed to the signatures of the principal and sureties, which must be Witnessed.

Your particular attention is called to the instructions contained in the 16" clause of the circular to Registers and Receivers, dated 25."
May 1831—(See Laws, instructions & opinions, Part 2" page 446,)
and to the 4" paragraph of circular of 25" May 1836. JW.
</docbody>
<dochead>SECRETARY MCCANTS TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[LC:Van Buren Papers:ALS]</source>
<place-time>(private) TALLAHASSEE Fla Janry 30th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>HON. M. VAN BUREN
Sir Although I have not the honor of a personal acquaintance with you, I have the honor of holding office by your appointment "
and under your administration—This warrants me in addressing you a private letter, tendering my thanks for the confidence you have manifested in me and my friend whose kindness recommended me to your consideration—The good will of the community in which I have lived for eight years has on several occasions confided to me important trusts, and my great happiness has been to receive their approbation of my conduct while acting for them—In 1836 I was a member of the Legislative Council In 1838 I was a member of the Convention which formed a Constitution for the future state of Florida—My appointment to office of Secretary was unsolicited and wholly unexpected—
Indeed my rule of life has been not to seek office, but to wait until my services were desired by the public–
The condition of this Territory at the present is very interesting—
The prosperity of Florida is struggling with difficulties, which seem too great to be overcome—The industry of the Country diminished and hindered by a distressing war is paying an interest on nearly
$4,000.000—and in addition a heavy and unjust tribute to luxury and privilege—Agriculture which is the staple industry of the land must bear their difficulties and if ever done must overcome them—Indeed when on the one hand I consider the ordinary profits of Agriculture, and on the other its liabilities and embarrassments, it seems impossible to entertain any hope of a successful issue-
To the abuses of the credit system we owe for the greater part our present condition—A few persons have obtained and used the public credit in procuring nearly $4.000.000—This fund has been thrown over the country producing dependence and indebtedness paralizing to industry and frugality, while they stimulate extravagance, and idleness and riskless speculation—The effect of this state of things upon the morals of community is perceptible—The poorer classes find no reward in a course of honest enterprise and prudence—Without

default they must bear a share and a large share of the prevailing embarrassments—They are looked upon too with disdain by those who have caused their distresses and who feed upon their substance.
They become discontented, and thus the class of profligate idle is continually increasing—
In this conjunction of affairs you perceive, Sir, we have but small encouragement to labor. Nevertheless for 12 months or longer the democratic party in Florida has been laboring with unceasing efforts—
And until very recently we have been doing so without that parental assistance from the general government which we hope hereafter to possess—If the measures of your administration are opposed by men high in Office they cannot but be hindered and often defeated—I feel great interest in the success of your measures relative to the revenue and the currency throughout the United States—But their influence and success in Florida is most sincerely to be desired—For although their immediate effect is to maintain the credit and character of our National Government and shew the permanent value of the constitutional currency, their tendency must check the abuses of the credit system and their demoralizing influences—
The appointment of Gov. Reid was highly gratifying to me and to many—While engaged in forming the Constitution of Florida I became intimately acquainted with him—And as we fought under the same banner, I was able to learn, and, learning, to approve and esteem the motives and principles of his public conduct—In short he is, Sir, an honor to Florida and I hope he will long live to enjoy the confidence of a grateful people—
I am Sir very respectfully Your Obt. Servt.
J. M*CANTS
[Endorsed] Mr McCants PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF JACKSON, WALTON, AND WASHINGTON COUNTIES
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>MARIANNA Fla Feby 7, 1840</place-time>
We the Citizens of Jackson Walton & Washington Counties Petition his Honour Cha" Downing to lay before Congress this Session the Necesity of A Road Crossing the Choctawhatche River on the Nearest and Best Rout from Marianna to Pensacola *
Geo W Tillinghast P.M. Wm H. Miner I. Midgeer T. J. Jordan Chas N Jordan Hugh Gilmore

F. R. Pittman Isaac, W, Horne James Griffin John Graves Joel Porter Thomas H Netherland Ira Green David Armstrong R S Dickson Luke Lott H. J. Cook Allen H Bush Henry Oneil W B MOOr Jos Armstrong Daniel M*Quagge Timothy Peacock Thomas M White Bryson Quin J. H. Parker W. H. S. Russ John E. Hagans T. R. Riviere Rich" Wilson Joseph Russ Stephen J Roche John B. Taylor Samel Stephens C. W. Josey W. W. Jones Wm. C. Bryan Jackson Co Wm Nickels Chs W Boyer R C Adams Peter Procise LL Mandal Sears Bryan Geo Swartwout Wm Williams Joseph W. Russ Thos Witton W. B. Cheesborough A. M. Richardson. Jr James Dowling A. K. Allison J. B. Starr Felix G Long Edwd H. Alderman A F, Bush John Bush Samuel Jones John Padgett W Crumrey Jesse B. Lassiter John Miller James Evans Esqr D, S, M“Lean Jas M'Lean John k M*David Daniel Ray John Percel Wm G Gunn Norman M'Lean Finly M*Caskill L D M*Lean John Harper Angus M. A. Crawford McRee Williams John MacDonald Daniel D M“Lean Sween M'Sween Archd M"Callum A Monroe John M“Lean William M*Leod Daniel D. Campbell John M“Lean Malcom M*Sween H G Ramsay Swain Gillis A. H. Brownell Angus M*Donald Alex M*Leod J, W, Williams Alexander M"Callum Samuel Rutan Gilbert Ray Wm W. McCallum

A, G, M*Lean Kenneth Maskill Peter McDonald A. C. Douglass Dugald Purcell William McDonald J M K Gunn D. M. McLean Wesley Bowers Griffen pipen John Gillis Solomon Pippen Daniel M"Sween Enenes Pippen Norman C. Anderson John L. M*Kinnon Malcom M*Lean Neill M"Pherson—Walton Cty Angus Campbell Ire S Williams Angus Gillis Wm. Miller John Campbell L, F Miller D G Gunn N, Miller John Morrison Wm L Miller
[Endorsed] Florida—Inh" For a road crossing the Choctacahatche river—Roads & Canals May 25, 1840 Ref" to the Committee on Roads
& Canals" Sent to Territories by ord, of M Levy Downing 21
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXX]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE W. 8" Febry 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EX. ROBT R. REID Govr of Florida SIR, Your letter of the 29" ult" " urging the appointment of a successor to Mr. Duval in the office of Marshal for Middle Florida has been received and laid before the President. Mr. Duval's term of service will not expire until Septr 1841, and his accounts, towards the condition of which the attention of the accounting officers had been directed, have recently undergone an investigation, the result of which is entirely satisfactory. This being the case, and this Department having received no information of a specific character, from which any inference can be drawn unfavorable to the expediency of Mr. Duval's continuance in office, the President is unable to act upon your suggestion; but directs that you may be called upon to furnish this Department with any information of the character referred to which may be in your hands, or within your reach."
I am &c.
Signed—JOHN FORSYTH.

EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M*]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE, 10th February 1840.
To the Honorable the Senate of the Legislative Council of Florida–
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their Names and request the consent of the Senate thereto;
John A Cavado to be Notary Public and Auctioneer at Fernandina for Nassau County E. K. White to be Judge of the County Court for the County of Alachua.
Warren Harville Wiley Brooks Samuel Smart John D. Tiner Elijah Tucker John Parsons John Crawford Josiah Gates Button Knight Thomas J. Prevatt Stephen Fagan to be Justices of the peace for Alachua County Edmund Bird to be Auctioneer for Alachua County John Morgan Daniel Causwell Seaborn Cobb Silas Journigan to be Justices of the peace for the County of Escambia A. M. Alexander to be Auctioneer for Port Leon in the County of Leon Henry L. Rutgen to be Notary Public for the County of Leon Edward W. Doubleday–Auctioneer for the County of Franklin.
Cosam Emir Bartlett Nathan Baker Elizir Wood Benjamin Ellison to be Justices of the Peace for the County of Franklin Andrew C. Hammond to be a Notary Public of Leon County Edward J. Hardin to be Judge of the County Court—a Notary Public—a Postmaster—an Auctioneer for the County of Calhoun Walter Thompson to be Lumber Inspector for the County of Calhoun James Ruan to be Notary Public for the County of Calhoun William W Street—to be an Auctioneer for the County of Calhoun Frederick Aubry and Francis Arnaux to be Lumber Inspectors for the County of Calhoun David Webster Edward R. Gibson Samuel H. Burgess to be Justices of the Peace for the County of Calhoun Burroughs E. Carr to be Auctioneer for the County of St: Johns George L. Phillips John L. Phillips to be Justices of the Peace—
Notaries Public—and Auctioneers for the County of St: Johns J L Lyons to be Auctioneer for the County of St. John's James Keogh to be Auctioneer for the County of St: Johns A. Spangler C. T. Lyman R. J. Hackley Rich" Y Wellford Edwin W. Dorsey to be Auctioneers for the County of Leon

Charles C. Adams to be Auctioneer of the County of Duval.
David L. White—to be Judge of the County Court for the County of Gadsden ROBERT RAYMOND REID "
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOSEPH MCCANTS AS SECRETARY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Commissions, E 2]</source>
<place-time>[February 17, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN WAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the integrity, ability and diligence of JOSEPH M*CANTS I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” do appoint him Secretary in and for the territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to Law and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments, thereunto Legally appertaining, unto him, the said JOSEPH M*CANTS, for the term of four years, from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the U. States, for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the Seventeenth day of February in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Sixty fourth.
M. WAN BUREN
By the President:
JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF CHARLES WALKER AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (SOUTHERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys' Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[February 17, 1840)</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of CHARLES WALKER I have nominated, * See post, p. 63.

and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Southern district of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said CHARLES WALKER for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L. S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the Seventeenth Day of February in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty fourth M. WAN BUREN
By the President, J. FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF CHARLES EVANS AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (WESTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[February 17, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of CHARLEs EVANs I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the district of West Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said CHARLEs EVANs for the term of four years, from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
|L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of

Washington, the Seventeenth Day of February in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty—and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty fourth."
M. WAN BUREN
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
AUDITOR'S CERTIFICATE FOR SECRETARY DUVAL
[GAO:Misc. Treas. Accts., No. 78,809]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, First Auditor's Office, 17 February 1840
No. 78.809
I hereby certify, That I have examined and adjusted an account between the United States and John P. Duval, late Secretary of Florida Territory, and find that the sum of One hundred and eighty seven dollars and fifty cents is due from the United States, unto Richard Smith, Cashier his Assignee being the amount of his salary from 1* October to the 15" of November 1839.—as appears from the statement and vouchers herewith transmitted for the decision of the Comptroller of the Treasury thereon."
J. MILLER First Auditor.
$187.50
To JAMES N. BARKER, Esq. Comptroller of the Treasury.
COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE, I admit and certify the above balance, this Eighteenth day of February 1840
J N BARKER Comptroller.
TO THOMAS L. SMITH, Esq. Register.
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENTS
[FSL; Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M "]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 17th February 1840
To the Honorable The Senate of the Legislative Council of Florida I respectfully nominate the following persons for the offices opposite their Names and request the consent of the Senate thereto-
W" M. Gibson to be Judge of the County Court of Leon County

Benjamin Byrd to be Auctioneer for the County of Leon James Child to be Justice of the Peace for the Oclockony District in the County of Leon Wm M. C. Neil John J. Edwards Richard Wilson James H.
Parker Joseph T. Russ Luke Lott Isaac H. Stone to be Justices of the Peace for the County of Jackson James H. Parker Hugh Rusk Ira Green Len Griffin to be Auctioneers for Jackson County Adam W. Snyder to be Judge of the County Court for the County of Dade W. C. Maloney Lemuel Otis Temple Pent William Whitehead to be Justices of the Peace for Dade County George W. Somerandyck to be Notary Public for Dade C”
W. C. Maloney to be Auctioneer for Dade County Andrew Robb to be Auctioneer for Duval County J. M. Gould to be Justice of the Peace for St: Johns County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID Governor of Florida *
Note, the above Message was also Sent to the House—
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DAVID LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>February 19" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>D. LEVY Esquire St Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 29" ultimo,"
enclosing one addressed to you by Major Crichton and others in behalf of the inhabitants of the neighborhood of Mandarin," asking your assistance in procuring an order for a Militia Volunteer company, to be mustered into service for the purpose of protecting that settlement from Indian depredations Such great inconvenience has been experienced by the service in Florida, from separate and independent commands being established there, that the Department has resolved not again to sanction them—
The letter of Major Chrichton and others, has, however, been referred to General Taylor, with instructions to take all proper measures for the protection of the country.
J R P

EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENTS
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M 70]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 19th February 1840
To the Honorable the Senate of the Legislative Council I respectfully nominat the following persons for the offices opposite their Names and request the consent of the Legislature thereto, F. A. Brown Auctioneer for the County of Monroe Samuel T. Vail Tax Collector for the County of Monroe W" H Bethel Justice of the Peace for Dade County W" Whitehead Auctioneer for the County of Dade Andres Papy Lumber Inspector for St: Johns County James Smith Justice of the Peace for Jackson County P. A. Randolph F. Wattington W” H Wall L. F. Breaker R. W. Cussins—Port Wardens for Key West J. B. Brown W. H. Wall R. W. Cussins. W. C. Greene A. F.
Tift—Auctioneers for Monroe County L. F. Breaker John Dubose Justices of the Peace for Monroe County John Ivertson Notary Public Duval County Edgar M McDonald Auctioneer Duval County Joseph L. Dutton, Auctioneer & Lumber Inspector for Duval County Francis A. Huson George Branning John M. Ponce Justices of the Peace for Duval County John B. Allen Justice of the Peace Hillsborough County W" P. Killgore Auctioneer & Gereher Hillsborough County R. D. Killgore Auctioneer Hillsborough County Domingo Acosta Jehn J. Braddeek J. Tomkins William Turner John Motes Justices of the Peace for Nassau County Daniel Campbell Justice of the Peace Escambia County F. Desa Reid Sen Henry DeCastilo Auctioneers for Escambia County Douglass Dummett Judge County Court Mosquito County Francis Pellicer Justice of the Peace for Mosquito County
[Blank] Cantwell Notary Public for Apalachicola—
Samuel H. Williams Auctioneer for the County of Mosquito ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
(The like message sent also to the House)

Executive Department TALLAHASSEE [February 19th 1840
To the Honorable the Senate of the Legislative Council, I respectfully nominate the following persons for the offices opposite their Names and request the consent of the Senate thereto.
Marshal P. Ellis Hezekiah Hawley Benjamin F. Nourse John N. Cummings Rob" Myers to be Port Wardens for the County of Franklin Charles Rogers—to be Auctioneer [County of Franklin]
John R. Dorsey E. C. Roberts M. P. Ellis H. Hawley to be Justices of the Peace [County of Franklin]
B. G. Ropes J. W. Griffith R. J. Floyd George S Hawkins Notaries Public [County of Franklin]
Remark The Commissions of G. S. Hawkins & Robert Myers to take effect from & after the 1st of April 1840, Stephen D Fernandez Justice of the Peace Duval County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID "
The above message sent also to the House 
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 20, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas by an act of Congress, passed the 26th day of May 1824”
“a pre-emption of one quarter section each, is granted to the several Counties, and parishes of each state or Territory of the United States, where there are public lands, for the establishment of seats of Justice therein, for said Counties and parishes respectively; and in Conformity with the supposed intention of Congress, as indicated by said Act, the proper authority of some of the Counties, in the Territory of Florida have located and sold a quarter section of land, on which the seats of Justice of their Counties, have not been located, and have applied the proceeds of the same, to the erection of Court Houses and jails in their Counties.—And whereas from the situation of the locality, and population of the Territory in many of the Counties, the location of the seats of Justice, on land belonging to the United States can not be made without great inconvenience, and manifest injustice to the Citizens thereof—And whereas in an order

emanating from the general Land office in this Territory, based upon the opinion of the Solicitor of one of the Bureau's of that department it is declared that, the right to pre-emption, can only be claimed, by those Counties, which have or may locate their seats of Justice on the quarter section applied for, and that all locations otherwise made, are void—Which decision will work an exclusion of a large portion of the Counties, in this Territory, from a participation, in the County which it is believed was intended by the government, and much to the injury of those persons who have purchased land located and sold by some Counties under a construction of the statute, different from the one given by the Solicitor Be it therefore Resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida That our Delegate in Congress be, and he is hereby requested, to present the subject to the Congress of the United States and use all means in his power to procure the passage of a law authorising the several Counties in this Territory, which have not located a quarter section for the establishment of seats of justice therein, to make such location as will be most beneficial to their Counties, without reference to the location of the seats of Justice thereon, and to sell the same applying the proceeds to the erection of Public Buildings of their Counties; and also to confirm such sales as have been made by counties the proceeds of which have been vested in the public buildings of their counties.
Be it further resolved That a copy of these Resolutions duly authenticated be forthwith transmitted to our Delegate in Congress—
Passed the House of Representatives Febry 10th 1840 att. J. H.
GIBSON Clerk RICHARD H LONG Speaker of the House of Representatives Passed the Senate Febry 20th 1840—att.—J S ROBINSON Secy Senate GEORGE S. HAWKINS. President of the Senate
[Endorsed] Florida—Legislature Leg. Council Resolution, Sections for Ct Houses & other public buildings Land for Court house's &
other public buildings Territories March 16 1840 Ref" to the Committee on the Territories" Downing

RESOLUTION BY THE TERRITORIAL HOUSE OF REPRE-
</docbody>
<dochead>SENTATIVES</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:C *]</source>
<place-time>[February 21, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas by reason of the long pending and still pending lawsuit between the United States and the apalachicola Land Company” in regard to the title to the land at the Junction of the St Marks and Waculla Rivers in Leon County Florida, the town of St Marks is greatly retarded in its growth and prosperity, and the interest of the residents of said place and the public convenience greatly prejudiced, said Land being in consequence with held from sale by both parties;
and whereas the said Apalachicola Land Company agree to a sale of aforesaid Lands in lots on equitable terms:—the proceeds to be held subject to the final decision of the Supreme Court of the United States as to said title.—
It is therefore Resolved by the House of Representatives of the Territory of Florida, that the Congress of the United States be respectfully requested to pass a law at as early a period as possible as pessible of the present session, authorising the sale of said Town in Town lots upon such equitable terms as to the proceeds of such sales as may be agreed upon between the U.S. and said company and that in such sales the rights and interest of said residents who have made Improvements on said lots should be protected as in the former Law of Congress respecting the sale of said Town and that a copy hereof be forwarded to the Vice President of the U.S. the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Delegate in Congress from Florida—
Adopted by the House on Febry 21" 1840–
Att. JA* H GIBSON Clerk
[Endorsed] Florida–Legislature for sale of of certain Town lots—
May 25 1840 Ref" to the Comee on the Territories" Dec 21, 1840
Refd to Comee On the Territories 77

EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M 77*]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 21st February 1840.
To, the Honorable, the Senate, of the Legislative Council, I respectfully nominate the following persons for the offices opposite their names and request the consent of the Senate thereto, Hanson Kelly John Campbell Henry Mitchelet John B. Foster Charles LeBaron Port Wardens Escambia County Stockley Sadbury M. M. Caswell Daniel M. Hinson Isham Johnston George Land John Buie Thomas Monroe John M“Donald, Justices of the Peace for Gadsden County Thomas J. Kenan, Notary Public [for Gadsden County]
William Monroe Auctioneer [for Gadsden County]
John N. Partridge; Judge of the County Court, Jefferson County William Budd Sam' Penliston W" Gorman John A. Edwards William Kersey Ranson Roberts Zachariah Fuller R. D. Bradley Joseph Joiner Hardy Moore Z. G. Wheeler John Wooten Moses Ellis Joseph Eaton, Justices of the Peace for Jefferson County John M. Palmer Moses Ellis, Auctioneers for Jefferson County William Budd, Notary Public Jefferson County I find that the Commissions of Robert J. Hackley, George L.
Phillips and R. T. Welford will not expire until the 27th February
1841, the nominations of these Gentlemen heretofore made is withdrawn—
I renominate for the consideration of the Senate John L. Phillips to be Justice of the Peace—Notary Public and Auctioneer for the County of St. Johns; the appointment having received the approbation of the House of Representatives.
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID "
</docbody>
<dochead>MAJORITY REPORT OF THE TERRITORIAL SENATE COMMITTEE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 26 Cong., 1 sess:Pr.]</source>
<place-time>[February 24, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Mr. Hawkins* from the committee to whom was referred that portion of the Governor's Message in relation to the division of the Territory offers the following Report.
To The Senate of Florida: The advocates for division of our Territory, and principally found in its Eastern portion, contend, that owing to

the diversity and contrariety of interests and opinions subsisting between East and Middle and West Florida, and the large extent of domain embraced within those divisions, propriety, justice, and a proper regard for the interests of all, demand, that a separation and dismemberment should take place.
Your committee cannot concur in these views and opinions, and differ as to its expediency and justice.
Political communities, like individuals, will certainly become estranged in their feelings, if they wish and resolve to be so; but the strongest tie of affinity which can exist between them is that where all parties of that community are mutually dependent upon each other, living under the same laws and possessing the same interests. Under this state of things, any diversity of feeling would soon pass away and a people connected with these ties, would in a short period become as One.
In case there were two states or territories, the cause of internal improvements would receive a severe shock, and instead of having railroads and canals throughout the whole extent of our present territory, they would in all probability be confined to small and limited districts, for it would be extremely problematical, whether the two future states would co-operate in any enterprise for the construction of those works across their respective domains, with that cordiality so requisite to ensure success.
Florida, from the general features of its country, its admirable adaptation to works of this nature, must in the course of human events, be the country over which will be constructed a work that will unite the Gulf of Mexico with the Atlantic by railroad or canal; and when completed, while bringing the people of either extreme and other portions into frequent contact, will create that most potent of all cements interest, with its concomitants, harmony and regard.
For a considerable period of time, there cannot exist amongst us the wealth requisite to carry through the works alluded to, and to stimulate individual enterprise, it might be necessary perhaps to invoke the aid of the state, either by partaking in it, or lending its assistance by legislative enactments, offering such inducements and conferring such privileges, as would tempt capitalists to embark in the undertaking.—If two states existed, it is but fair to suppose, that obstacles would be much increased by questions arising, involving sovereignty, right of soil and expediency, and which would tend to render abortive all schemes of this nature.
Should division ensue, emigration to either territory would be seriously retarded, for citizens of the states, with their notions of the

wild and loose legislation generally found in territories, will be loth to leave homes where life and property are secured by salutary laws, to seek new ones in a country where the constituted authorities are not amenable to the people for any dereliction from duty, where they will have no voice in the selection of rulers, who are generally sent from abroad, and in all respects as dependent upon the will of Congress, as the colonies were upon Great Britain, previous to the revolution.
Chancellor Kent on this subject, uses the following language, and which your committee deem pertinent to the subject under consideration—“Such a state of absolute sovereignty on the one hand, and of absolute dependence on the other, is not congenial with the free and independent spirit of our native institutions; and the establishment of distant territorial governments, ruled according to will and pleasure, would have a very natural tendency, as all proconsular governments have had, to abuse and oppression.
The territory is bound for the redemption of certain bonds, and the whole territory is so bound. It may be contended, that as a territory, we had no power to pass laws binding on the future state, though the case in II Martin's Reports, State v. New Orleans N. Company, seems to militate against that position; yet be it as it may, the question of ratifying or denying the pledges made may come up for future disquisition and future action. Might not East Florida contend, that inasmuch as she had not received an equal portion or share of the benefits of the Union and Pensacola Banks, that equity would decree that she should not be bound for the responsibilities incurred by the territory for those Institutions? In case the holders of the bonds issued should fail in receiving the interest on them, and should have recourse on the territories or states for payment, the most selious questions would arise, fraught with embarrassment and perplexing in their nature. That there would be efforts made to shift responsibilities from one state to the other, little doubt can exist, and a never ending source of dispute would be created between them, while a singular spectacle would be exhibited of two sovereign states quarrelling and wrangling, which should or should not assume liabilities contracted jointly.
Already has Congress, by its munificience, given large sums of money for our public buildings at the present site of our capitol. Those works are now in progress and will soon be completed. If a new territory should be formed, the citizens of West Florida would contend most strenuously for the removal of the present capitol to a more western and central position, and if the ends of justice were attained, a new site would be selected, and again large sums lavished upon it by the General Government. The contest growing out of the question as to the location of this site, would inevitably give rise to angry

and violent discussion. A question might here arise, how far that country is in the main benefitted by those acts of pecuniary liberality, and if they have not a tendency to teach and accustom us to be mere dependents on the bounty of Government, and while palsying our industry, render us careless and neglectful of our own resources It is urged as an argument in favor of division, both here and elsewhere, that it is a southern measure, and by creating two states, in lieu of one, the balance of the union will be better preserved. Years must elapse, ere in case of separation, the two states could have more than one member in the popular branch of the national legislature, though it may be granted, that two senators would be gained. The confederacy being created in a spirit of compromise, and based on the virtue and intelligence of the people; to that virtue and intelligence it must be indebted for its permanence and endurance.
That day will indeed be a dark one for the cause of freedom in our Country and the stability of our Union, when the vote of a small state can decide its destinies, and the ballots of two Senators are the only barriers between revolution and anarchy. The union of the States would hang together but by a brittle tenure, and like the sword suspended by a single hair over the head of Damocles, would ruin and destruction impend over our country. If there were but one state, the members of the Congressional House of Representatives would increase more rapidly than if there were two: for in the first instance, there would not be two distinct fractions of numbers over and above the ratio of representation; whereas in the latter case, these fractions would more or less exist, and if added together, might enable one state to have an additional and one other Representative.
Your committee are of opinion, that the moral and political influence of one large and respectable State would be greater and more deeply felt in the councils of the Nation, than that exercised by two smaller ones, equalling, when united, the one State. In the first, there being but one people to be represented, one in interest and united in policy, its representatives would naturally act in that concert which would tend to produce more important and happier results, than if separated in two portions, and divided politically and in interest.
In case of war, a single state by a concentration of its resources would be more efficient in repelling an enemy than two weak and ineffective ones; for should such a crisis or event take place, and always likely to do so from conflicts between the General Government and foreign nations, Florida indubitably would be deemed the weak point to be assailed, the point d'appui from which an assault would be made as well on the peculiar Domestic Institutions of our Territory, as those of the whole Southern portions of the Confederacy.

It might afford a curious problem in political arithmetic worthy of solution to ask, how long a period of time would elapse (should the sought for division occur) ere the two Territories would possess sufficient population to enter the Confederacy. It is true, that States may have been taken in, without possessing the ratio of representation at the time of their admission. There is every reason to suppose, that the present ratio, will be increased on the completion of the census, and it is equally probable, that it will continue so to increase hand in hand with the population of the Union and that it will outstrip the increase of our own population. If Congress should decide, that we must come up to that ratio, whatever it may be, difficult as it would be for our present Territory, how utterly impossible, at least for a long time, would it be for two territories.
From the spirit of deadly hostility manifested in certain portions of the union to the admission of new slave States, there are well grounded fears, that in the ratio as the time is postponed for our admission, so will that spirit display itself by throwing obstacles and barriers in our way. There are unquestionable proofs of that feeling gaining ground, if we are permitted to judge from the criteria furnished us by Executive messages, Judicial decisions, local laws and the refusal to deliver up those fugitives from justice, who after being guilty of the most serious infractions of the laws of slave holding states, have fled for protection to those states, where slavery is not acknowledged, and availed themselves of it under their municipal regulations.
Let us not be deluded by the “cry of peace, peace, when there is no peace,” let us not be told, that a sect who under the specious guise of philanthrophy are now warring against our dearest rights and endeavoring to snap the chord that binds out Confederacy, a sect, who have “stolen their banners from the altars of Christ, and congregated their allies from the abysses of Hell,” are but few in number and that their efforts will prove futile and vain; when they boast of rapidly increasing numbers, that they have controlled the elections of the largest state of the Union, that the Legislature of a sovereign state has instructed its representatives in Congress to vote against the admission of any state tolerating slavery, it is time for a Territory, where slavery exists and coming within the purvieu of those instructions, to look to itself and oppose a division, that might tend to render those instructions available against it. Iowa and Wisconsin, are nearly ready to enter the Union, and before we could hope to set off our strength against these in Congress as two States, an issue may be made and decided in relation to the questions above alluded to, and we become the victims of its consequences and results. It is urged, 563214–62–6

that East Florida, assisted by the bill for the armed occupation of Florida and now before Congress, would of itself soon be prepared to enter the Union. This argument is used by some Southern Statesmen in favor of the bill, independent of its being the means of ending the war; and they contend, that its passage would go far to produce results favorable to keeping up the balance of the confederacy. The bill is not yet a law, and should it become so, though your committee are in favor of it, yet, would its passage induce that kind of population to avail themselves of its provisions and settle amongst us, who would be considered as valuable acquisitions further than mere numbers?
Those, allured hither by the inducements held out in the bill, would unquestionably be a hardy and enterprising race of yeomanry, their only wealth, stout hands and hearts, their rifles and munitions of war.
Not till the termination of the war, an event extremely uncertain, would the lands be given them and not till then, would their swords be turned to plough shares, or would they cultivate that soil, they had won by their valor. Something more than mere numerical strength is to be sought for in a State and it must depend for its support upon that pecuniary fund created by, and arising from its agricultural and commercial resources. The bill alluded to is as yet an untried expedient and its results cannot be foretold or safely calculated upon;
and your committee contend, that the rights of the people of Florida should not be subject to the hazard of an experiment, a dernier resort to end a long protracted and ruinous war.
But, admitting all that its advocates ask, Middle and West Florida have a right to look to East Florida for its co-operation and assistance in their efforts to become a State, when they can be asked without doing injustice to any portion of the whole Territory. They have a right to invoke its aid, and become partakers of the burthens incident to a State Government, and as an equivalent therefor, to share in the benefits. If she acted otherwise, she should not be guided by that side of justice that should characterize the people of a common Territory.
It cannot be denied, that the domain under the appellation of Florida, is sufficiently large for two States; but it should be recollected that a comparatively small portion of it will admit of successful cultivation, or repay the husbandman for his labors; that those portions susceptible of that cultivation are scattered in bodies, and their cultivators, in many instances, will have to depend for getting their produce to market, upon the Internal improvements already referred to. Florida could cover many Rhode Islands or Delawares, but as yet, she has not, and it may be long ere she has the population of those states.
In the treaty between Spain and the United States, for the cession of East and West Florida, there is a guaranty in these words: “The

inhabitants of the Territories which his Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States, by this treaty, shall be incorporated in the union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the principles of the Federal Constitution, and admitted to all the privileges, rights and immunities of the citizens of the United States.”
The division sought for, would conflict with the letter and spirit of this provision of the Treaty, and deprive us of a right by postponing the period of incorporation unto the union of the United States. It was the evident intention of Spain, the ceding power and party of the compact, that the provinces ceded should be considered as one and indivisible, and be admitted as such. The words “East and West Florida” are mere terms of description, including one domain; and so must they have been understood by the United States at the time, for since the treaty, they have been included in one Territorial Government; if otherwise, they would have been severed.
After the cession of Mississippi to the United States by Georgia, the permission of Georgia to divide it, was first asked and obtained; but the people of the Territory objected, and asked permission from Congress to enter the Union. The committee of Congress, to whom was referred their petition for admission, in the report used this language:
“It is known to your committee, that the consent of Georgia to a division of this Territory, has been asked and obtained, and should it be divided before it is admitted, the admission of either part would, from a want of members, be subject to additional objection and further delay. But doubts were entertained, whether the Territory can, with strict propriety, be divided without the consent of its inhabitants, as well as that of Georgia and the United States. Although the people of the Territory had no agency in the agreement above granted, they were the object of it, and as such became a third party to it, and vested by it of a right which is explicitly defined.”
Your committee would direct the attention of your honorable body to the strong and complete analogy existing between Florida as she is, and Mississippi as she was; and adopting the language and reasoning of this report, we contend that inasmuch as we were the objects of the Treaty with Spain, we constitute a third party to it, and before we are dismembered, we have a right to be heard. If division should be decided upon by a majority of the whole people of Florida, the minority must silently acquiesce; and if on the other hand, the minority should only be in favor of that division and opposed to the majority, they, too, should give way to the largest number. Your committee deem these propositions to be in strict accordance with the spirit and principles of republican institutions.
The people of Florida have solemnly decided on a State Government—that question has been acted upon in compliance with a law

passed by their representatives. A Convention of the people has been held, and a Constitution has been formed. If we are to be denied admission, the refusal to admit us must be based upon something else than a proje’t at variance, and inconsistent with our rights—
the point to the treaty of Spain as the guaranty of those rights, and placing us on a level with other citizens of our country. Upon that treaty we throw ourselves, and if we comply with the requisitions of the Constitution necessary to admittance, we do not come as mere suppliants, begging to be admitted into our great Confederacy:
but with that charter in one hand, and the Constitution in the other we demand as matter of right, as a sovereign State, with sovereign rights to be taken into the family of the American Republic.
Your committee beg leave to offer the following resolutions, all which is respectfully submitted.
Regarding any law of Congress dividing the Territory of Florida without the consent of the majority of our whole People, as unjust to us, unconstitutional and invalid.
We hereby respectfully, but solemnly and earnestly protest against the passage of any such law, as militating against these rights secured to us by the Treaty with Spain, and the laws of the land, and Be it resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That our Delegate in Congress be instructed to oppose the passage of any law dividing our Territory, by separating East and South Florida from Middle and West Florida or in any other way or manner.
Be it further Resolved, That copies of this Protest and Resolution, after due authentication, be forwarded to the Honorable Charles Downing, our Delegate in Congress, the President of the Senate of the United States, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to be by them laid before the respective bodies over which they preside."
</docbody>
<dochead>MINORITY REPORT OF THE TERRITORIAL SENATE COMMITTEE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.: Pr.]</source>
<place-time>[1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Mr. Hart,” from the select committee to whom was referred so much of the Governor's Message as relates to the Constitution of Florida, and the division of the Territory, dissents from the views

taken by the majority of the committee, and begs leave to submit the following report on the subject referred to, which was read, and with certain resolutions, 200 copies ordered to be printed.
REPORT.
The subject offered for the consideration of the committee, is certainly one of grave and serious import, calculated to exert a most vital influence over the destinies of Florida, and to effect its interests for the present, and through all future times, whilst the course urged by the majority, will embarrass, if not ultimately defeat the accomplishment of a great southern measure, prompted by a strictly southern policy.
It cannot be denied that the signs of the times, and the demonstrations of hostility to southern institutions, point out to us most emphatically, the necessity of arming for the coming contest, so that we may offer an effectual resistance to the evident disposition to encroach on our constitutional privileges. We can but do this by increasing the number of southern states. To carry out this expedient, it should be our first object to divide Florida, and urge the admission of the two territories into the Federal Union as two separate and independent States. This will give us four Senators, and for the present, two Representatives in Congress; and then we will present a more efficient force than can be done by any State having but two Senators and one Representative.
In reference to the Constitution recently framed at St. Joseph:
and although it embraces many sound and wholesome doctrines, yet if we look to the votes of the people, we will see how nearly divided is public sentiment in reference to its adoption. If in fact it be adopted, the majority does not exceed twenty-one; unquestionably too small to force upon so large and respectable a minority a measure to which there has been manifested such determined hostility. But its adoption by the people is not admitted; and the evidence offered is not satisfactory: on the contrary, it is believed and contended, that if the votes should be fully and fairly cancelled, it would be found that the majority for its rejection will be considerable. Enough at least has been discovered to render it extremely doubtful, and we should hesitate to force an obnoxious measure upon an unwilling people.
In reference to a division of the Territory, it seems to be suggested by its practicability and expediency, and because it is a measure strongly promotive of southern policy, and tends to our own political good. Each of these territories is much larger than several of the states, and each capable of receiving and sustaining a much larger population. Their present union appears to be unnatural, and their

geographical position will present a state of a most awkward shape, whilst a controversy and confliction of interests growing out of it, will forever destroy that harmony so essential to the prosperity of a political body.
This seems to have been the view taken of the Floridas by every other government which has had dominion over them. Originally as Spanish Provinces, they were separately governed, and independent of each other. In this way they were ceded by Spain to Great Britain in 1763. They continued separate provinces under that government:
and when they were afterwards receded by Great Britain to Spain in
1783, no change was made; and which, by the treaty of cession in
1819, between Spain and the United States, they were ceded to the latter, they were ceded as separate territories, known as East and West Florida.
The Government of the United States seems to have regarded them in this light, for immediately after their cession, although Gen. Jackson, clothed with the authority of Capt. General of Cuba, was appointed to govern them, yet two separate offices, in the character of Lieut. Governor, were appointed to each of these provinces, and their present union was originally a measure only of temporary convenience.
To go now into the Union as one State, will be to surrender, for considerations of temporary political policy, an advantage whose importance will only be appreciated by the advocates of State Government, after it shall have become too late to retrace their steps. It is most manifest that the treaty does not contemplate the admission of the Floridas as one State, but in language that cannot be mistaken, it secures to the inhabitants of each of these Territories the right of admission as separate States, as soon as shall be consistent with the principles of the Federal Constitution.
Whenever mention is made of them in the Treaty, the plural number is used, and they are spoken of as “The Florida's,” “The inhabitants of the Ceded Territories,” &c. This view was taken by Hon. members of the Senate of the United States, when the subject of division and the Armed Occupation Bill was under discussion.
It was assumed without contradiction, that this right had been guarantied to the citizens of the two territories. What is meant by the words in the treaty “as soon as shall be consistent with the principles of the Federal Constitution,” all may not agree in their interpretation. By some it may be urged that they refer to the ratio of representation as it now exists, and others, and not a few, will urge, with force and ability, that they refer to the ratio of representation, as it was when the territories were ceded. This last is the ground assumed by the committee of the Convention at St. Joseph, appointed

to draft a memorial to the Congress of the United States, in relation to the admission of Florida as a State into the Federal Union. On the other hand, it might be insisted, that these words have reference to the ratio of representation, as it was at the time of the adoption of the Federal Constitution: and again, that they have no reference to any ratio of representation.
However, let it be admitted, and it cannot well be denied, that the treaty of cession has guarantied not to the inhabitants of Florida, as one province or Territory, but to inhabitants of East and West Florida, as separate Territories, the right of admission into the Union as separate and independent States. Then if the argument that the present ratio of representation is not to be the governing rule, be true, there is no more to be found in the Federal Constitution against the admission of the two Territories, as two separate States, than in favor of their admission as one State.
The people of East Florida are not only opposed to going into a State Government as one State, believing it to be a measure opposed to southern interest and southern policy, and prejudicial to the particular interests of each section, but are decidedly opposed to going into a State Government at all at present.
The difficulties and embarrassments which they have had, and still have to struggle with—the ravages and misfortunes inflicted by a desolating war have destroyed their agriculture, and impoverished the people so that their situation at this time is one rather to claim relief than to contribute to the heavy expenses of a State government.
They therefore regard the attempt to force them, against their wishes and their interests, into a State Government, as in the last degree, ungenerous, unjust and oppressive, and which they will, by every means in their power, resist.
Whilst these views are expressed in reference to the wishes and interests of the people of East Florida, feeling of selfishness will not be permitted to embarrass the claims of the people of Middle and West Florida.
In these sections there appears to be manifested an intense anxiety for a State Government, so far as can be done without prejudice to themselves, the people of East Florida, will readily aid them in the measure.
If the views taken of the treaty guaranties be correct, and sustained as it is, by the opinion of able and talented men, then the people West of the Suwannee river, are more entitled to admission as a State into the Federal Union. They have a territory in extent larger than several of the old states, possessing commercial and agricultural rewards, inviting a dense and thrifty population, and which is now sufficient to render their claims to admission consistent with the principles of the

Federal Constitution. And under, and by virtue of the treaty guaranty, they ought of right to be admitted immediately into the Federal Union.
It is therefore respectfully recommended, that a memorial be drafted and sent to the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, urging the claim of the people West of the Suwanne river, to admission as a State into the Federal Union, and the erection of East Florida into a separate Territorial Government, making a prospective arrangement for the admission of the latter as soon as there shall be population to warrant it.
The following resolution is also respectfully submitted:
Resolved, by the Governor, the Senate, and the House of Representatives of the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That our Delegate in Congress be, and he is hereby instructed to use his best efforts to procure the passage of a law for the immediate admission as a state into the Federal Union, of all that section of Florida lying west of the Suwannee river, and for the erection into a separate Territorial Government of all that portion lying east of said river, making a prospective arrangement for the admission of the latter as soon as there shall be sufficient population to warrant it.”
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF THE TERRITORY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 24, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States—
Your petitioners would respectfully represent that they regard the practice at present existing on the part of the Government of receiving charges and accusations against those employed in the service of Government and removing those complained of in such accusations without informing the person accused who are his accusers, or of what offence he stands charged—thereby denying to him an opportunity of refuting them and condemning him unheard is unjust in the extreme and should be corrected by the national Legislature—As long as covert attacks and secret accusations are encouraged no officer will find that the discharge of his duties however faithfully and ably

0.
ed he executed will form a sufficient shield to protect his reputation against the silent and subtle assaults of his enemies, who are permitted to assail him in his absence and are protected and countenanced in their conduct by those who have authority to act on the charges preferred.
Your petitioners regard the practice alluded to as having the most baneful tendency and one to which the most vigilant and efficient officer will often fall a victim while the name of his accuser and the cause of his accusation are alike unknown to him Your petitioners respectfully represent that they believe a prominent instance of the evil of this practice has recently occurred in the removal of Richard K. Call from the office of Governor of Florida.” As the public Journals of the Territory rarely if ever spoke of his official conduct except in terms of approbation and as his zeal and energy in the use of the limited means under his control in endeavoring to give relief and protection to our harrassed and distressed Territory were known to be unceasing it could not have been anticipated that so decisive a measure would have been adopted without affording this officer an opportunity of being heard in his defense—But not only has this opportunity been denied him if your petitioners have been correctly informed—but it is not yet known for what cause he has been removed unless the rumor be correct that it has occured in consequence of his differing in opinion with the War Department of the Government on the proper mode of terminating the unhappy conflict with the Seminole Indians If such be the case your petitioners find a double cause for regret in the removal of this officer as it may be regarded as a decided indication on the part of that branch of the Government to conduct the war as heretofore carried on—Your petitioners have watched with the deepest interest the events of the war and most of them have been sufferers either directly or indirectly in person, family or property from its effects and feel themselves called on, on this occasion to say plainly to Congress that they do not believe that under the present plan of operations against the enemy the contest will ever [be declided. As the operations of the Army do not usually commence before the months of November or December
(and the present year not until the middle of the last month) and conclude in March or April; but a small part of the year generally not exceeding three and a half or four and a half Months are spent in the field * during the Summer and Autumn Months—Your peting Of lat ity Ong icer bly Sé 0|
als)
363), f the ision

tioners do not profess to be competent to suggest to your honorable body the most efficient measures to close this unhappy conflict, but would beg leave to say that none has been presented to their consideration having greater probability of success than those to be found in the several communications of the late Governor of Florida with the Secretary of War, and the President of the United States.
More particularly the plan of a military colonization of the country occupied by the enemy and granting of lands to the settlers as an inducement to emigration as contained in his last Message to the Legislature of Florida–And the employment of force calculated for the service to be kept without interruption in the field until the war is closed—To prove that the last measure is practicable we need only refer to the fact that the executive of the Territory has invariably kept the small force under his command constantly in operation without respect to the seasons, during which periods they are known to have suffered less than the same number of regular troops in Summer quarters.—Your petitioners do not pretend to say that the regular Army can perform this service—Their ability is best known to the generals commanding them, but they do state that a force can be raised in the Southern States capable of performing the duty mentioned.
Your petitioners therefore pray for the passage of a Law for the Military colonization of the country at present occupied by the Seminole Indians and a grant of land to the setlers on the plan recommended in the last anual [message of]* Governor Call, and a law for the raising of a permanent force of militia or volunteers to be kept in active operation until the close of the war—Your petitioners further pray that a Resolution be passed calling on the President of the United States for his reasons for the removal of the late Gov' of Florida and requiring him to lay before Congress the charges against that officer with the names of the persons preferring them and the evidence in their support–And for the passage of a law requiring the President of the United States before removing an officer of Government (if in his opinion the case will admit of such delay without jeopardy to the Public interest) to have him furnished with the charges preferred against him, the names of his accuser or accusers and the evidence in their support. And requiring the President in all instances to furnish Congress with his reasons for the removal of officers, the names of accusers, and the evidence in support of the charges—”

John T. Horn William Holland James M°Carty Charles Ager Joseph Williams James Williams Alfred Oliver Robt. Debose John T. Covington William N. Saunders Lewis T Lee Cornelius Barnes William Singletary G.T Codding Lewis Grimes Michael High Elijah Leavins Hugh Humphreys A. Byrd A Patterson Joshua Dean Henry Grantham A. Holmon Henry Sparkman Franklin S. Johnson James Speers William Gay Thomas Williams William Hawkins John Addison Benniah Boatwright Ambrose Arnold John M*Elvy Morton M°Cauley Jno M*Dougald James Black James R. Roberts William Rauls Andrew G DeLacy C C Kyle Henry Baer Gadsden County Allen M°Craine Willis Bratcher Alex McKenzie Madison Lott Augustus H Johnson Jacob Blount Griffin Ball A H Kyle Henry Gray John C. Leslie Neill Black Daniel Townsend J B Chew Richard Carpenter Gerrard M"Laughlin Alexander Fraser Patrick M*Kenney M. Conway Bainton Bartlett Harry Nichols Ja” Imrie T. H. Lunn Henry Clifford Alex McIver DM Lang H G O Fairbanks Henry Pearson Burrel Rudd A. J. Miller Conrad Wolf Morgan howell J G Connell James Williams J. W. Miller Nath Lott John athly Thomas Parish J. B. Pitman Briant Stephens Archabald M"Davy Nathan L. Russel

Wiley Kendrick John Womack L. Shelfer John L. Smith James Gudie George Henry Eddin, T, Holt Joseph Blunt Duncan Buie Stanford Parish William Waught Turner Holt Madison Holt Ambros Cook Gregory Blagden R K Shaw Hugh C M*Lean William C. Sweet Morris T. Wyatt James Lanier James M. Wilson J. W. Williams John McMillen Daniel Shaw Jn"
Alex" Martin James Cradock Wm. Johnson John T. Seegar John Wynn J. W. Ogilvie B. C. West Augustus Unger Stephen Wandenbergh William Cox John G. Ball R. H. M. Davidson Robert L. Harrison Stockley Sadbury William Forbes D C Patterson Uz. Wood John Anderson Joseph Swan Newman Gilchrist Elijah S. Shepard William Warren R. C. Lester Jeptha D Gregory R Forsyth Newel Gilchrist Elijah Hubbard Thos M Grigsby A Burney Jr J. P. Hollomon James M. Hunter Jesse Roche Jer A Moore William Addison John Sisk Andrew Burch Nelson Swain Charles Havis Kimmy Mew William L. Manning Charles Rederick William Oliver A Grisset John Dailey Peter Borne William Mortgage Lion Grisset Robt. Noland David Burney Gregrey Hall Lewis Hall Samuel Stewart James W. Lofton Mikel Ritman Henry Gill William OConnor William Winsant Daniel Lamb Charles Dreiss James Addison

Jos" Croskey C. D. Conners Jn° W. Rinaldi Rob. J. Floyd A Wylie H. Hawley A Crook G B Dickinson W" Davidson S. C. Morton Wm C. Dickinson Wm. Crockett Francis Ellis H. M. Farrior J. W. Griffith 89
C Salisbury H. Davidson M. L. Taylor Hez Smith Geo Walker Jr John Chystie Amory Rogers John Endeman W. C. Laurence R Crockett Kerr Lyman Cully WV Winslow Cha” J. Tomlinson Francis Kapman H Garrity J R Dorsey C H Mather H. Williams H. White B. Ellison B: G: Ropes W H Bogmon Franklin County.”
W" M. Megget C. H. Dunham Wm Kelly BS Hawley H. Nourse E. Hook J. Nugent Cummings Wm H. Bassett Wm F Serrell J. Bootes Wm. EmerSOn A. Snow Edward Esley R. John Hamilton Wm. Everds.On R L Rodman Wm FOSter H D Dardin S M Reed M. P. Ellis C G Holmes E J Hamilton Robert Robinson John Trevett H. B. Stone C. J. Shepard JO” Foster W Field Wm Hickok W" Henry Talman Wm H. Stark H. W. Brooks N. C. Robbins Joseph B. Clark Seth P. Lewis "
James B. Taylor Austin Williams

John F Phillips E W Doubleday Seth P. Lewis Danl Rogers J. W. Griffith C. Gilbert James Gibson Henry W Terry Tho" L Mitchel B. T. Caro Wm P. Byrne Tom Peter Chaires Joseph C. Williams John H Verdier W M Randolph R. W. Williams CG English F. Eppes L. F. Mosher E B Green R. B. Copeland W Wyatt James Dowling E Baker J D Coleman W C Campbell M Ledwith H J Alexander John G. Gamble E. J. Wood Benjamin W. Gause Turbett R. Betton J. B Bull G. K. Walker J H Randolph R. B. Ker H R W Andrews E Barnard Jr John Hare Geo Fisher J M Scott R. S. Jenkins J. B. Webberstar Tho" McCarty Joseph Fain John W. Green P J Thursby John C. Jacobi Luke Lott Tho" Simson Micaga Levie W" M. Chamberlain Willis Dowling Chs Nuitz Henry Ham G W Garret Saml Wilson C C Wilson & Co G. W. Parker Wm R. Hayward John McMullin B C Lewis D. H. Ames Levi Cuolton R R Pilgrim N Street Clark Rigs W" Hayward Richerd Sheffer Jno. C Lineburger Nath Roberts Thos John Capt Th. Bezeau B G Thornton James Wallace B. G. Thornton Junr C. C. Williams W P Monroe Thos. Hunt Ben R Taylor H. Wade J Pralnous James Krupp John Tolls Thomas Barnard James Kirksey Seaborn Thorn John Turner

F L OR I DA
M. C. Browne J W Browne Geo. Robson Jr SP Nowlin Tho" J. Perkins R. A Shine William Tradewell John Wilson Thomas Moore Daniel W. Owens D. A Gaillard Canada Rouse Harvey M Hale Benjamin Hale J. L. Demilly James F. Trotti Isaac Shores Augustus H. Lanier R G Wellford Wm N Harvin A. A. Fisher L. C. Demilly Joseph Hale John B. Keen R. K. West James H. West Jacob Stroman Wm Cannon John W* Lea H. T. Copeland Wm Thomson LT Taylor J C Strong N. M. Martin Rob" Lyon J S Robinson Jos D. Ryan Edw Grant T H Austin Rich Hayward Tho" Hayward JW Levinus Silas H Courtney W. Kinden Henry Kinden W. B. Thomas Edw" Loockerman Abram Daniel J B Lockerman T J Hackley Jas. H. G. Lorimer Nathaniel Williamson Geo. O. McMullin C C Hall Geo M Wheaton David Austin Jr Hamlin J Cook F. H. Flagg John W, Argyle Henry Bond Walter F Lloyd John P. Coles R J Wellford Edwin W Dorsey James B Gamble J. Grattan Gamble Sam Reid Robert H Gamble Robert Gamble JG Gamble Jr Lionel Fletcher William Pringle George B Woodford James T Leyman A. L. Brett H K Sadler A. C. W. Gussett Tho" Howell James Dowling John G. Park JO” G. Hurd J. Richardson Jr C Fletcher E. P. BOWers Wm H. Wyatt E. W. Baker Ja” H. T. LOrimer

[Endorsed] Florida Petition of Citizens of -for the modification of the la [MS. torn] of the Territories so as [MS. torn] authorise the people of each Territory to elect own Governor, & c. Feb. 24. 1840.
Ref" to Com" on the Territories with Resolution Downing"—12
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR
TERRITORIAL APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.: M*]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 26" February 1840
To the Honorable the Senate of the Legislative Council, I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names and request the consent of the Legislative Council thereto, Daniel Buie Thomas Harrison, to be Justices of the Peace for Gadsden County William G. Ponder W" Hilliard Benjamin Manning Jos, B.
Johnson James R. Nicks Adam Grambling Israel Beard Richard G. Burney William Munroe W" C Campbell Richard H. Bradford James Willis George Young Daniel Ladd Hiram Hall John W. Hale H. H. Walker F. B. Whiting S. S. Sibley Abraham Spangler, W* W. Hart Jas L. Hart W* Bloxham Justices of the Peace for Leon County—
Silas Barney Daniel Ladd F. B. Whiting Auctioneers for Leon County James T. Archer Notary Public for Leon County A. M. Alexander Dr Richard Blount Port Wardens for St: Marks Leon County A. P. Roux, Judge of the County Court of Nassau County Joseph Moore John Broom John C. White Justices of the Peace for Madison County Sherod Edwards Auctioneer [for Madison County]
John W. Cox Justice of the Peace Notary Public & Auctioneer Duval County Zachariah Busby John Gillis Angus Campbell John S. M“Kinnon Justices of the Peace Walton County Christian P. Ducer Joseph Dyall John F. Webb Justices of the Peace for Columbia County—

Rev. Samuel F Halliday A. W. Critchton Joseph E. Summerall John M. I. Bowden Washington M Ives John Houston Calvin Reed John G. Smith John Broward Isaac Bush O. M. Dorman To be Justices of the Peace for the County of Duval S. S. Sibley Notary Public for Leon County Thomas Ledwith W* B. Ross Calvin Reid Auctioners for the County of Duval W" H Williams Auctioneer for Mosquito County Thomas E. Barrow Tax Collector of Alachua County Joseph B. Watts Joshua Roberts W* B. Hooker John R.
Zippener S. Justices of the Peace for the County of Hammilton Mathew Michler Auctioneer [County of Hamilton]
Archibald M*Rea Notary Public [County of Hamilton]
Phillip J Fontane to be Auctioneer for Key West Monroe County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY RICHARD K. CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA: SF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:ADS"]</source>
<place-time>[February 26, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Senate, and House of Representatives, of the United States of America, in Congress assembled.
The memorial of R.K. Call—late Governor of the Territory of Florida, respectfully represents, that your Memorialist was on the 16
day March 1836,” without his knowledge, consent, or application, with the advice and consent of the Senate appointed by the President of the United States, Governor of the Territory of Florida, for the period of Three Years. That Your Memorialist did not accept the said office of Governor, until he was induced to do so by the petition of a number of the most respectable Citizens of this Territory. That Your Memorialist afterwards accepted, and entered upon the duties of said office, and continued to perform them, to the best of his abilities until the
25" day Feb 1839, * when your memorialist was reappointed to said office again, without solicitation, or request on his part, for another term of three years. That your Memorialist continued zealously and with unremitted assiduity to perform the duties of Governor of Florida until the evening of the 24" of December last, when he learned with some surprise, throught the medium of the News papers that he had been superceeded in the office of Governor as aforesaid, and that

the Hon’bl. R.R. Reid, Judge of the District of East Florida, had been appointed his successor.” Although this event has been published, and republished in the Newspapers from the date of the removal of your Memorialist until this the 26" of February, and the successor of your Memorialist has been long since installed in office, Your Memorialist has received no official information from the Government on the subject. He has not been notified of his removal. Nor has he been advised by the proper Department, —of the names of his accusers, the offence with which he stands charged, the names of the witnesses, or the nature of the evidence on which he has been condemmed. After judgement, and execution, it may have been deemed by the Department of State, an idle cerimoney, to inform the accused of his arraignment, or it may have been considered an office too humiliating to correspond with one who had fallen under the displeasure of those in power. But your Memorialist never having felt himself elevated by the commission of the President, does not by its loss, feel himself depressed below the grade of respectability; which would entitle him to be informed of the cause of his removal from Office. A few days before your memoralist heard of his his being superceeded, he was informed by a friend, that a petition, praying for his removal had been secretly circulated among those who had conspired against him, and had been forwarded to Washington." The propriety of sending a counter petition, by the friends of your Memorialist," was suggested, but he rejected the proposition, stating to the friend by whom it was made, that he relied on the propriety of his own conduct, no less than on the justice of the President of the United States, that if charges had been made against your memorialist, the high functionaries of the Government would not condemn him unheard, but that they would afford him a fair, and impartial opportunity of vindicating his reputation.—How far your memorialist was correct in the high estimate he had formed of the magnanimity and impartial justice of the Federal Executive, is shown by the result.
Your Memorialist was not only dismissed from office on the secret and insidious representations of his unknown accusers, but the injury has been agrivated by witholding the causes of his removal.—The dismissal of an officer from a place of high trust, and responsibility, implies guilt of some misdemeanor, demanding a measure of such harsness, and until the true cause shall have been assigned by the proper, and responsible Department of the Government, the public mind is left to conjecture, and speculate on the probable offence which has been committed. Your Memorialist feeling a just, and

conscious pride in the belief, that he discharged with zeal and fidelity every duty imposed upon him, by the high station which he lately held, is unwilling to leave his reputation in an attitude so equivocal.
To relieve him from this embarrassment, and as an act of justice to himself, he is reluctantly compelled to invoke the power of Congress to pass a resolution, calling on the President of the United States to disclose the real cause which produced the removal of Your Memorialist from Office.
Your Memorialist has been informed by private letters which he has received from Washington, that he was removed from Office on the application of the Honorable J.R. Poinsett secretary of War, and Your Memorialist has through the kindness of a personal friend, been furnished with a Copy of a letter from this public functionary to the President," making the request, for reasons therein assigned. Your Memorialist deeply regrets to find this high officer of the Government, one representing the pride and chivalry of his Country, assuming the unworthy garb of the secret accuser. The blow has already been given, the wound inflicted. But Your Memorialist is prepared as he believes to shew that the reasons assigned for this extraordinary act, though plausible and imposing, are fictitious, and unreal, and are intended to conceal the personal malice, and political animosity long cherished by the Hon” Secretary towards Your Memorialist, and by which he was actuated on this occasion.—
In aid of the investigation of these facts, Your Memorialist prays, that a resolution may be passed, calling on the Honorable J. R.
Poinsett to furnish a copy of his correspondence with your memorialist and a copy of the correspondance of Your Memorialist, with all the Officers of the United States Army who have served in Florida, so far as the same may be found in the archives of the War Department.”
First in the catalogue of charges presented against your Memorialist, by the Hon” Secretary, is that of an unwillingness to cooperate with the commanding General in Florida. After speaking of its importance, in his letter to the President, he says, –“such a result cannot be expected, so long as the present Governor remains in power.” This is a grave and serious charge, but its truth is put in issue; and is disproved by the whole tenor of the correspondence of Your Memorialist, not only with the Commanding Generals, but with the subordinate Officers in Florida. The correspondence of your Memorialist " to which he begs leave to refer Your Honorable Body, will show at all times, and on all occasions, a disposition to cooperate, faithfully and

zealously, with the Officers of the U.S. Army, in all things, except the plan, and polocy which has been generally pursued of abandoning active operations, with the first appearance of Spring, and remaining in Summer Qarters, until the month of November or December.
If a non acquiessence in this policy, be deemed a want of cooperation on the part of your Memorialist, then is he guilty of the charge. He could not in duty to God, and his country, remain an inactive spectator of the horrid scenes of butchery which have been so often exhibited, almost within the virge of the Capitol.—He could not turn a deaf ear to the invocations of his fellow citizens, who called on him for protection He could not give his sanction to a policy which has protracted the war to its present length, exhausted the National Treasury, and covered a large portion of the Territory he was appointed to Govern, with ruin and desolation. But in no instance can it be shown, that Your Memorialist ever did refuse to cooperate with any officer of the Army in Florida, no matter what may have been his rank, when the object proposed was intended to promote either the prosecution of the War, or the protiction of the country.
The next matter of reproach contained in the letter of the Hon".
Secretary of War; is, that Your memorialist “failed to acquire the respect of the Army of the South, while invested with the command of it.” “And ever since that time, an unfriendly feeling had existed between the Military and Civil Authorities, to the great inconvenience of the Service” In nothing could the personal feeling of his accusor have been more fully developed. That the whole Army of the United States, and every portion of it, no matter where stationed was generally dissatisfied with the appointment of Your Memorialist to the command in Florida, as it had a right to be, and as it would have been with the appointment of any citizen to such a command, cannot be doubted. This feeling was fully manifested in the public prints of that day, and that many of the Officers were unwilling to cooperate with, and were instrumental in having Your Memorialist superceeded in command, he has as little doubt. Their professional pride was wounded by seeing a citizen clothed with power, which they believed, could not rightfully be confered on any other, than an Officer of the Army.— However deficient Mr. Poinsett may be in Military knowledge and capacity, he cannot be ignorant of the Esprit du Corps, of the Army, and of the unwillingness of the Officers to see a Military Command confered on a Citizen: And yet he has endeavoured to reproach Your Memorialist for their opposition to his command over them. Your Memorialist feels confident that he did not “fail to acquire the respect of the army of the South,” so far as it ever came

under his command, by permitting it to slumber in Summer Quarters, while the enemy desolated the country around it. But that all was done which could have been accomplished by this inconsiderable force, during the same time, and under the same circumstances. If your Memorialist could in any degree be censurable for the state of feeling mentioned by the Secretary of War, it would be for accepting the command when confered on him. But the peculiar situation of the Country, the danger and destruction to which it was exposed, and the obligation on his part, to hazard all for its relief, he conceives will answer every objection on this subject. At that period the Army had retired to Summer Quarters, and the most of the officers of high rank, were absent from the Territory, either in conducting the War against the Creek Indians in Georgia and Alabama, or on furlough.
Most of the Military Posts had been abandoned, and the Indians almost, without resistance, murdered the families, or plundered and burnt the deserted houses, along the whole frontier for the distance of more than 200 miles. Such was the condition of the Settlements exposed to the invasion of the Seminoles; while on the other hand the Creek Indians who evaded the pursuit and vigilence of the Army, were passing in large, and small parties, from Alabama to the Peninsula of Florida, threatening desolation to the Country in their march. For a more particular description of the danger, and suffering, to which this country was then exposed, and the trials and difficulties with which Your Memorialist had to contend, he respectfully refers to his correspondence with Gov. Cass the then Secretary of War, a part of which is herewith enclosed. This correspondence created the germ of offence to those in power. It never died, but descended to the succession, increased with time; and more recent correspondence, until it matured into hatred confirmed dislike and finally produced the removal of Your Memorialist from Office. The whole energies and resources of the Government were at that time directed to the defence and relief of the powerful States of Georgia and Alabama; while Florida with her sparce and unarmed population, was left to struggle for existance against the United forces of the Creeks and Seminoles.
Your Memorialist then urged the necessity of a summer Campaign, as the only effectual measure for the protection of the country. At this fearful crisis, when every portion of the Territory was threatened with danger, and scarcely a man could be drawn from a settlement, without exposing his family to butchery, -when the whole disposable force of the United States in Florida, would not have formed an effective Regiment; in mid-Summer, when no General Officer of the Government desired it, the command in Florida was graciously confered on Your Memorialist, with authority to make a Summer Campaign. But he was especially informed that his authority would

be temporary, and that his command would cease, on the arrival of Maj. Gen' Jesup, who was ordered to Florida.” The regular Troops were stationed in the different Military Posts, from Tampa Bay to St Augustine, and from their numbers and ill health, were scarcely sufficient to defend their own positions, and furnish an escort for the Supplies transported from the depôts to the posts of the interior.
Until the arrival of the Tennessee Brigade of Volunteers on the 15"
of September, Your Memorialist could with all his efforts, scarcely assemble a sufficient force at any one of the numerous assailed, and assailable points to hold the enemy in check. On the arrival of Maj.
Gen' Jesup in Florida on the 18" of September, Your Memorialist in a personal interview, tendered to him the command of all the forces in Florida, which he generously declined. It was however verbally understood, and mutually agreed on between him and Your Memorialist, that he should retain the immediate command of all the forces he brought with, and expected to follow him from Alabama, and that he would sail from Appalachicola Bay to the mouth of the Withlacoochee, or Tampa Bay, from whence he would enter the enemy's country, while Your Memorialist with the Tennessee Brigade, then about 1200 strong, a small Battalion of Florida Volunteers, and such of the regular Troops as might arrive, or be drawn from the Military Posts in East Florida, would pursue the Indians in the northern part of their country. Although a friendly correspondence was maintained, no orders were given by Your Memorialist to Gen' Jesup, who pursued his own plans, and acted on his own discretion.
Your Memorialist then just risen from a bed of illness, and scarcely able to mount his horse without assistance, lost not a moment in marching against the enemy, who after the shameful abandonment of Fort Micanopy, advanced upon the settlements, and covered the frontier with havock and dismay. He had relied on this post as a depôt for his army; (see his letter to the Hon"Secretary Cass of the

surrounded with embarrassments, will be seen in his official report to the War Department, and he does not shrink from a comparison of them with what had before, or has since been done, within the same time, by more numerous and better appointed Armies."
“The army of the South” as it is pompously termed, so far as it ever came under the command of Your Memorialist in the field, consisted only of one small Battalion, less than 300 strong; with most of the Officers of this Battalion, though feeling the prejudice common to the Regular Army against serving under the Command of a Militia General, and strongly averse to a Summer Campaign, Your Memorialist maintained the most harmonious intercourse, and he remembers with pride and admiration, the zeal, alacrity and intripidity, with which they generally cooperated with the volunteers of his command.
Even when placed upon half rations with the common soldier, in order to continue the pursuit of the enemy, and give him battle, not a complaint, not a murmer was heard.
The aligation of the Hon” Secretary that, “ever since that period, (the command of your Memorialist over the Army of the South) an unfriendly feeling has existed between the Military and Civil Authorities, to the great inconvenience of the Service”, is too equivocal, and uncertain, to be either admitted, or denied. But if it is intended to include Your Memorialist in the term “Civil Authorities,” and to represent that unfriendly feelings, “have ever since existed” between him and the Military, Your Memorialist denies the truth of the assertion, and as a proof of the propriety of such denial, he refers to his correspondence with Maj. Gen' Jesup, by whom Your Memorialist was superceeded in command of the Army.—From that correspondence it will appear that the best feelings, and the most harmonious relations, both personal and official, existed between Your Memorialist, and this distinguished Officer, during the whole period of his command in Florida.
The correspondence between Gen" Taylor and your Memorialist will disclose feelings little less cordial. It is true that Your Memorialist has some times differed with him essentially in his views of the measures necessary to defend the frontier, as well as for the successful prosecution of the War. But Your Memorialist has ever attributed to this General the possession, not only of high personal worth, but of great zeal and energy in the performance of his duty.
That Your Memorialist has earnestly remonstrated with the Secretary of War, against the conduct of certain officers, serving in Florida, in withholding supplies from the Florida Troops, called into service

by Your Memorialist under the authority of the War Department, at a time when the frontier was exposed to the utmost peril, he readily admits. Your Memorialist begs leave respectfully to refer Your Honorable Body to his correspondence on this subject, both with the Secretary of War, and his subordinate officers, and he appeals with confidence to your judgement, and your impartial justice to decide, whether it would not have been more compatible with the high character of the minister of War, to have enforced obedience to his own orders, and to have given that protection to the bleeding frontier of Florida, which Your Memorialist sought to obtain; than to make his respectful application to him for this purpose; the foundation of an insidious and unjust accusations against Your Memorialist.
Your Memorialist again repeats his earnest request, that your Honorable Body will carefully examine this correspondence and decide whether the Hon"Secretary of War should not be held responsible to his country for the blood which has been shed through the weakness and imbicility of his administration of the War Department. After speaking of the unfriendly feeling which he alledges to have existed between the Military, and civil authorities, the Secretary of War adds,--"this feeling constantly manifested by the Governor, has lately been so openly avowed as to produce an effect on all connected with the Regular Army, which if not counteracted may be attended with unpleasant and disasterous consequences.” Your Memorialist has been greatly at a loss to conjecture what it is to which the Hon”
Secretary alludes, and believes that he has chosen to be mysterious, in order to give to his accusation the more imposing effect, as Your Memorialist is not conscious of having openly or otherwise avowed a
“feeling” calculated to produce the fearful results anticipated by his accuser. The Allusion may be to a “feeling” sometimes expressed by Your Memorialist towards the present incumbent of the War Department, and to which he will have occasion hereafter to advert.
A shrug, and a grimace, often intimates more than the courtier would hazard his reputation to express, and like the fabled mountain, when the hon” Secretary shall have been delivered of his mysterious conception, sympathy for his sufferings will be forgotten in the astonishment at his wonderful progeny.
The accuser of your Memorialist in his letter to the president, speaks of the unfriendly feeling existing between the Regular Troops and the Militia, and although the charge is not directly made, it may be infered that this forms a part of the grounds of complaint against Your Memorialist. This if intended, is not less fair, and equitable than all the rest of the positions taken by the Secretary of War. The only difficulty which has taken place in Florida, between the Regular

Troops, and the Militia, so far as your Memorialist is advised, occurred at Tampa Bay, with the Troops of Missouri and Alabama. Troops which your Memorialist never saw, or had the least intercourse with, or controll over. That your Memorialist has endeavoured to discourage those feelings among the Florida Militia and Volunteers is fully shown by his correspondence with Col. Robt. Brown, published in the pamphlet herewith enclosed,” and to which Your Memorialist begs leave to refer.
The Honbi Secretary of War proceeding with his accusations against your Memorialist says.—“Besides Gov. Call dissatisfied with the rejection of his offer to enlist a large body of Militia for the service in Florida, and of the urgent recommendations of his friends to have the whole command and conduct of the War entrusted to him, has publickly declared his intention to propose to the Legislature of Florida to furnish the necessary funds to provide for an Army to act under the Authority of the Territory” Your Memorialist denies that his friends ever did with his knowledge or consent, reccommend that he should “have the whole command and conduct of the War entrusted to him”, and if such a reccommendation was ever given, and rejected, without his knowledge, he being ignorant of the fact, it could have given him no dissatisfaction.—Your Memorialist denies that he ever desired the command of any portion of the United States Troops stationed in Florida. He sought to obtain a seperate district of the enemy's country, including that which had been conquered by the enemy, where with the pariotic Volunteers of Georgia Alabama, & Florida, who had offered their services he might operate without commanding, or being command by the Regular Officers. After the late truce had been repeatedly violated by the Seminoles, and when the treachery of this perfidious ruse had been fully developed by the most shocking acts of barbarity, in the destruction of whole families without discrimination of age or sex, and while the Army appear still to confide in the good faith, and hold amicable relations with the enemy; Your Memorialist believing that the President of the United States was unacquainted with the true condition of this hapless Territory, with the hope of awakening to action the dormant energies of the War Department, and of procuring for the people of Florida the protection they have a right to claim, on the 28" day of July last addressed a letter to the President of the United States," urging in strong and energetic terms the necessity of prosecuting the war with vigor, “through every change and vicissitude of Season, without

halt, truce, or parley, until the war should be brought to a successful termination.” Your Memorialist believed the adoption of this course was required no less for the safety of the people of Florida, than for the preservation of the National honor. A truce had been made, and violated under the most agrevating circumstances. The national dignity had been insulted, our arms had been put at defiance, our citizens murdered, our soldiers surprised and massacred. Your Memorialist could not believe that the head of this powerful Nation, the successor, the immediate successor of Gen. Jackson, could have hesitated in addopting the most prompt measures to visit with signal punishment, this savage and perfidious people, and with a part of the force to be employed Your memorialist offered at Mid-Summer to take the field, and had he been permitted, or could he have procured supplies he would have marched at the head of 5,000 of the best Troops of the adjoining States, and of this Territory. With a hope of procuring a more immediate attention to his suggestions, Your Memorialist sent a deputation from among the most intelligent and respectable gentlemen of Florida to wait on the President to deliver the letter above mentioned, and entreat him to action. A
copy of that letter," with a copy of the report of this deputation communicating the result of the mission is herewith enclosed,” and to which your Memorialist begs leave to refer Your Honorable Body.
But Your memorialist was no less disappointed in the results of the mission, than he was in the effect which the disasterous intelligence from Florida produced on the President and Secretary of War. Instead of finding them at the Capitol planing a campaign, and providing for a prompt and energetic movement to punish the treachery and cruelty of the savages, the deputation was compelled to pursue them thrugh the State of New York, catching a hasty interview at White Hall, and at Plattsburge, and finding them much more disposed to listen to the grateful sound of popular applause, than to the sufferings and distress of this unhappy Territory. A campaign against political opponents in New York, was deemed a matter of far greater moment than one against the treacherous Seminoles in Florida.—
With regard to the avowal of the intention of Your Memorialist to apply to the Legislature of Florida to furnish the necessary funds to provide for an Army to act under the Authority of the Territory.
This is true. It was the intention of Your Memorialist to have made such an application. But was it for this Your Memorialist was superceeded as the Governor of this Territory. Your Memorialist believes he may venture to say it was not. The Hon” Secretary

had himself given sanction to the raising of a force to act under the Authority of the Territory. He had ordered General Taylor to cause to be supplied a military force not to exceed 300 men, to be subject alone to the orders of Your Memorialist.” And owing to the failure of one of his subordinate Officers to furnish the supplies, though repeatedly ordered to do so by the General, as your Memorialist has been informed, Your Memorialist was compelled to borrow near
$50,000 to sustain his troops, which sum has never yet been refunded by the Government. The Troops which your memorialist proposed to raise, under the power of the Legislature, would have acted under the same Authority as those raised by the sanction of the Secretary of War. But when did the Hon” Secretary first learn the intention of your Memorialist to raise a force to act under the authority of the Territory? In a special Message to the Legislative Council dated on the 7" February 1839, a copy of which is herewith enclosed,"
your Memorialist reccommended this measure, and two different acts were passed during that session confering on the Gov. of Florida the power of raising men “to act under the authority of the Territory,”
with the further power of issuing the Bonds of the Territory to raise money to the amount of $600000 for the support of these Troops, and nothing but the inability of Your memorialist to negotiate the bonds for a sufficient amount, (the contingency not having arisen, which would justify the issue) prevented him from raising a large force to operate against the enemy during the summer Months, while the Army of the South as it is called, reposed in Summer Quarters.
A copy of the special Message refered to was sent both to the President of the United States and to the Secretary of War. Neither could have been ignorant of the intention of your Memorialist, to raise money and support Troops, “to act under the authority of the Territory,” and yet Your Memorialist was without the least solicitation on his part, after this, reappointed Gov. of Florida. With what propriety then could the Hon” Secretary of War demand the removal of your memorialist from Office, for the avowal of his intention to do that which he had done a year before, without censure or reproof from the Government? But if it were possible that the facts, and circumstances mentioned by your Memorialist could have escaped the notice and attention of the President & Secretary of War; they were both, by his letter to the President dated 28* July, 1839, informed that your Memorialist had raised men, and of his intention to raise a still larger force. In that letter your Memorialist observed, “I have two companies in the pay and subsisted by the Territory, and I shall

employ as many more as the limited resources of Florida can support, until the enemy shall have been driven beyond the reach of annoyance to the settlements.”
This letter was delivered in the Month of August, and refered to the Hon"Secretary of War. He was then fully apprised of the intention to raise “as many troops to serve under the Authority of the Territory “as the limited resources of Florida could support.” If this was cause of complaint, if it constituted an offence for which your Memorialist should have been removed, if it threatened the fearful consequences anticipated by the Hon” Secretary, why did he not immediately apply for the removal of your Memorialist. Why was this necessary measure delayed until the middle of December? The cause is plain. This is but the plausible pretext, the fictitious reason given to hide one far less justifyable as your Memorialist will hereafter show. The Troops mentioned in the letter of your Memorialist to the President of the United States were actively employed in defence of the frontier. Their number was increased to 250, and with this force your Memorialist marched in the middle of Sep', and during a continued and persevering scout of 30 days, dislodged the enemy whereever found in Middle Florida. Two large settlements were broken up each within ten or fifteen miles of a Military Post of the United States, where the Indians in considerable numbers, with their wives and children had been permitted to build houses and cultivate crops without interruption, and from whence they had annoyed the settlements, and destroyed the frontier inhabitants, as well as the expressmen and military escorts of the Government. On this expedition your Memorialist subsisted his troops at the charge of the Territory, but on one occasion being unable to reach his supplies, he arrived with his Battalion after night at one of the Military Posts of the Government, his horses and men greatly fatigued with their march and destitute of forage. As a temporary relief, Your Memorialist sought to borrow a small supply from the abundant stores of the Government, under a pledge to return the same quantity on the following day at noon; but even this trifling accomodation was denied.
Your memorialist would do injustice to many esteemed friends and meritorious Officers of the Army, if he were to omit a statement of the fact, that he believes the inhospitality which he experienced at the Post above mentioned, was owing entirely to the orders of the commanding Officer of the District, whose conduct on a former occasion in withholding supplies from the Florida Troops, had been reported to the Secretary of War without producing the desired effect.
Thus increasing the bad feelings of which he complains in his letter to the president. Your memorialist has other convincing proofs that his removal from office, was not occasioned by the avowal of

his intention to endeavour to raise troops to act under the authority of the Territory. Had it have been so his successor must have come into Office under an implied pledge to adopt a different course of Policy. So far from this he has not only retained the Troops of the Territory which he found in service, but he has employed others, signed and negociated the Bonds of the Territory to a large amount to raise money for their support. These troops are now acting under the orders of the present executive, and entirely independent of the Authority of the U.S. Officers—If it were culpable in Your Memorialist to maintain a military force at the charge of the Territory, and independent of the authority of the commanding General, the same act and the same policy cannot be more justifyable in his successor.
If such a measure under the administration of your Memorialist, would have brought the War Department “into direct collision with the Civil Authorities of the Territory, and involve the Government in great immediate expense, as well as lay the foundation of interminable claims upon the Treasury,” it must produce the same result under the administration of his successor. Your Memorialist believing that he has sufficiently exposed the weakness, the falicy, and fiction of the reasons assigned for the removal of your memorialist from office, will now proceed to show, what he verily believes were the true motives by which this functionary of the Government was actuated. Your Memorialist has been informed and believes that on the 16" day of Nov last John P. Duval late secretary of this Territory," who was at length dismissed from Office, for neglect of duty, and disobedience of the repeated and positive orders of the Government, prefered charges against your Memorialist in a letter addressed to the Hon”
J. R. Poinsett,” the only charge of which your Memorialist has heard is that of holding the Hon” J. R. Poinsett in great contempt, arrising from the weakness and imbicility of this officer in the prosecution of the Florida war. Your Memorialist prays that a resolution may be passed, calling on the Hon"J. R. Poinsett to furnish a copy of that letter, and such others as he may have rec" from the said J. P. Duval making charges against Your Memorialist, and when produced that your Hon” Body will compare the date of the charges prefered against your Memorialist, with the date of the letter of the Hon"Secretary to the President of the United States applying for the removal of Your memorialist from Office.—
Your Memorialist has recently heard and believes that there was a secret conspiracy formed against him by a faction in this Territory who professed to be the exclusive friends of the President of the United States, and that a petition was circulated among them and

signed, appealing to the President to sustain his party in Florida, telling him that they (the petitioners) despaired of what they were pleased to descriminate the democracy of this Territory, without a change of administration, and praying for the removal of Your Memorialist from Office, and the appointment of the Honb" R. R.
Reid as his successor.” Your Memorialist prays that a resolution may be passed calling on the Honb' Secretary of State to produce a Copy of that, and all other memorials on the subject, with the names of each subscriber. Your Memorialist believes that the production of the documents mentioned in the two last resolutions will fully establish a concert of action between the Department of War and State, and a secret combination between them and a faction in this Territory composed of all political parties, federal and Territorial, for the removal of Your Memorialist from Office—
If it be an offence requiring such a penalty, to hold the plans and policy pursued by M Poinsett in prosecuting the Florida War, in contempt, a policy which has desolated the fairest portion of this Territory, bankrupt the National Treasury, and covered our people with mourning and sorrow, Your Memorialist pleads guilty of the charge, and prays that his dismissal may be placed on that footing.
If the removal from Office of Your Memorialist was necessary to sustain the political party of the President in this Territory, let this also be assigned as a reason. But truth, justice, and every principle of honorable action, revolts at the attempt to fabricate fictitious and unfounded reasons for this harsh and extraordinary measure. Your Memorialist complains not of his removal from Office, but of the manner, the insulting and contemptuous manner in which it was done. He complains, and justly complains of the dishonorable attempt to assign unreal and fictitious reasons for the act. Your Memorialist feels a just pride in the reflection that while in Office his whole faculties and best energies were ever employed to promote the happiness, the safety and prosperity of the people of Florida. For them he often periled life and fortune, and that he considered the Office of Governor of this Territory as valueless, when weighed in the scale with the safety and protection of those who looked to him for defence against the savage enemy; he begs leave to refer Your Honorable Body to the following extract from his instructions to the deputation sent by him to wait on the president of the United States and urge a more prompt and vigorous prosecution of the War.
“I regret to say Gentlemen that I have not been sustained either by the Officers of the Army, or of the Government in the measures I have deemed necessary for the defence of the Country, and our local

Militia have been rendered useless, by withholding from them, on my requisition the necessary supply of arms, amunition and subsistance. On this subject I beg leave to refer you to my correspondence with Col Davenport, a copy of which in manuscript is herewith enclosed. I deem it indespensibly necessary to the security of the frontier, that the Governor of this Territory, should not only have the power of ordering out the Militia in cases of emergency, but that he should have the means of furnishing them with supplies. It is not necessary that I should be Governor, but it is necessary that the Governor, be he who he may, should have that power. And I have to request Gentlemen, that you will urge this upon the President of the United States, and as citizens of this Territory, deeply interested in its safety and prosperity, insist that this power shall be confered. If the President should be unwilling to entrust me with the exercise of this power, he owes it to himself, and to the people of Florida to dismiss me from Office, and appoint one in whom he has more confidence.—I hope Gentlemen you will urge this upon him with all Your zeal and energy. That which may be found most conducive to the safety and prosperity of the people of Florida, will be most acceptable to me”
The propriety of the opinion above expressed cannot be doubted by any rational mind. The absurdity of waiting to consult the Commanding General at the distance of two or three hundred miles, and of obtaining his permission to raise and support troops to drive back the marauding bands of the Indians, while burning and plundering almost within sight of the Capitol is too glaring even for comment, and yet this is the system which the Hon” Secretary has endeavoured to enforce during his whole administration; that he is justly accountable, for all the blood which has been shed, and the lives which have been lost under this miserable policy, no one can doubt.
Such were the views and feelings of your memorialist, and he rejoices that the last moment of his official existence was devoted to the defence of his country. The deputation sent by your memorialist to wait on the President, acted in accordance with the above instructions, and what was the reply of this high functionary, is shown by the following extract of a letter received from three of the members of that deputation.
“The committee acted in obedience to your instructions, and stated to the president emphatically, that if he had not entire confidence in you to remove you from Office, and appoint some one in whom he could confide: to which the president replied, That Gov Call was a high-minded honorable and talented Gentleman in whom he had every confidence.”

But these considerations were forgotten when the removal of your Memorialist was demanded by a member of his cabinet. That your Memorialist has evinced strong feelings in his correspondence with the Secretary of War, he does not deny. But those feelings were produced by a knowledge of the danger and suffering to which the people of Florida were exposed, and the indifference and neglect, with which those sufferings have been regarded by the head of the War Department. Under his administration hundreds of square miles which were once inhabited by a happy and prosperous people, are now restored to their original wildness, and solitude, and the whole frontier presents one wide spread scene of desolation and ruin.
Millions of public Treasures have been expended, and hundreds and thousands, of human lives have been sacrificed, and after a conflict of more than four years continuance, the arms of this powerful Nation, are now employed in defensive warfare against the victorious Seminoles.
The Army has retired from the enemy's country, leaving him in undisturbed possession of all the Territory he possesed at the commencement of hostilies, and is now engaged in the attempt to draw the enemy from that which he has conquered. Under this system what reasonable hope can be entertained, that any one now living will see the close of this unhappy conflict. So long as the present policy is pursued, so long will the war continue, until the last house, and the last inhabitant of Florida shall have fallen by the hands of the Savages. For more than three years has your Memorialist argued, remonstrated, and entreated against this policy, but all his anxious efforts have had a tendency only to excite the displeasure and disapprobation of the Government. It is always a thankless and sometimes a perilous responsibility to remind men in power of the weakness and inefficiency of their measures; but your Memorialist could not regard those considerations, when his duty required him to speak in plain and comprehensive language. He could not flatter and applaud the man under whose administration of the War Department he had seen the brightest hopes of this Territory blighted, and hundreds of its people reduced from abundance to want, and almost to famine.
Your Memorialist cannot forbear a comparison of the condition of this Territory at the commencement of hostilities, with its situation at the present moment. The war found the Seminoles located within their boundary on the Peninsula. The public lands had become a source of revinue to the Government. The tide of emigration was fast flowing in. The settlements of the white man were advancing in close proximity to the Indian boundary, and the dawn of prosperity, which promised a bright day of success to the emigrant, every where

appeared. This state of peace and happiness, was disturbed by the first policy of the Government to remove the Indians from the land of their nativity, under the provisions of a treaty previously made.
The people of this Territory were no parties to this compact, they were not consulted on the occasion, they had no agency in the negociation or the execution of the Treaty. Their situation was peculiar.
They were the dependants of the National Government; without political influence or a voice in the National Councils. The Seminoles resisted the power of the Government; and our once happy and prosperous country became the theatre of a bloody and long protracted struggle. The tide of war rolled back upon us. House after house has fallen, family after family has been murdered, the frontier has receeded near one hundred miles, and the unconquered savages, pass in triumph over the deserted fields, and dreary ruins of the Christian settlements. We owe to the Government of the United States allegience, and in return she owes us protection. Protection of our lives, protection in the enjoyment of our property, but above all, in the undisturbed possession, and enjoyment of the lands we have purchased from, and paid her for. How far this reciprocal obligation has been performed on her part, has been proclaimed in the dying groans, and written in the blood of hundreds of helpless women and lisping babes, who have perished by the knife of the savage, or been consumed in the flames of their own dwellings. The National treasury has indeed been most liberally appropriated by Congress; but if we may judge of the future from the past and the present, it has been expended under a system which can never be successful, and if continued will ultimately deliver this Territory to the undisturbed possession of the savages, and wild beasts of the forest.
That the vast resources and power of the United States are competant to the conquest of this band of savages, no one can doubt.
Nor is her political and moral obligation to do so less certain. The last hope of subduing the Indians by kindness, and closing the war by conciliatory measures, must have expired even in the minds of those who have been so often duped by their treachery and cunning.
The repeated violations of the late truce, both in the murder of our citizens, and the surprise and massacre of the soldiers, must have convinced the most credulous, that no reliance whatever can be placed in their plighted faith, and that there is no other alternative than that of subduing the Indians, or of leaving the inhabitants of Florida to be exterminated by them. Your Memorialist cannot believe that, the national Legislature will hesitate in the choice of the positions to be taken, and that when it shall understand the true situation of this Territory, that it will adopt the necessary measures for its relief.
563214–62–8

But your Memorialist most earnestly believes, that something more is necessary to be done by Congress than the mere appropriation of money to conduct the war. He is favourably impressed with this belief, not only from his knowledge and observation of the manner in which the war has been conducted, and the results with which it has been attended, but from the notice taken of the subject by the President in his last annual message. The petty corporations of this Territory have claimed more paternal concern from the Federal Executive, than the Seminole War, which is depopulating the country, consuming the substance of our people, and draining the last artery of the National Treasury. Your Honbi Body may rest assured, that if this fatal, and destructive war is not arrested in its progress, no concern need be felt for our corporations, for they will most assuredly be involved in the general ruin, and must fall with those by whom they have been created, and sustained. The President dismisses the subject of the war in a short paragraph, by reccommending the Report of the Honbi Secretary.” And what is that report? What is the plan proposed to end this harrassing conflict, and restore this Territory to peace and tranquility. He says that “orders have been given to change for the present the theatre of operations.” The frequent murders in Middle and West Florida, show that there are still small bands of Indians lurking there, and it is the determination of the Department in the first place to draw them from that part of the Territory, and free the settlements from further molestation.” Thus proving what Your Memorialist has before stated, that the Army has retired from the enemy's country, and is engaged in defensive measures, after a war of four Years continuance. And why has it become necessary to abandon offensive for defensive War? Why has it become necessary to send the Army to operate in Middle and West Florida? From the commencement of hostilities, until a short time before Maj. General Jesup retired from Command Your Memorialist defended Middle and West Florida with the Territorial Militia and Volunteers. Not a Regular soldier was employed in this service until May 1838 except for a very short time in 1836 and although great embarrassment was sometimes experienced from the want of subsistance, forage, and Pay, and Your Memorialist was on more than one occasion compelled to pledge his private fortune, and borrow money to pay the troops, this frontier was not only defended, but was comparatively safe. It is a fact which cannot be denied, that more blood has been shed in Middle Florida, and more property has been destroyed, in the last 13 months, while it has been defended by a large Regular Force, than there had been previously, during the

whole period of the War. Had the Honbi Secretary adopted the plan reccommended by Your Memorialist, in his letter to that functionary dated the 4” of Oct. 1838,” middle and west Florida would have been saved from the danger and suffering to which it has since been exposed, and the National Army, might have continued its offensive operations against the enemy. Your Memorialist asked to be permitted to raise only 400 mounted men, to perform this important service, the expense of which would scarcely have amounted one tithe of what has been expended. It is a principle of Warfare, known to the whole civilized world, and well established since the days of Hannibal, that the most certain and efficient mode of defence against an invading enemy, is to carry the war into his own country, and throw him on the defensive. This universal principle is as applicable to savage as it is to civilized warfare, for though the Seminoles have no treasures to lose, no temples to defend, their house hold Gods, are their wives and children, and their fierce warriors will not leave those exposed to an invading army, to strike at the distant frontier settlements. Your Memorialist, is well convinced from four years observation and experience, that no system of defensive warfare can give successful protection to our settlements against the inroads of the enemy, and that if the whole Army of the United States with all its gallantry formed one entire cordon of Posts on our borders, the skulking savage would still pass the chain, of defence at night and break upon the slumber of the settler. This opinion is based on the well known and undeniable fact that during the last summer, the trails of the enemy, often in considerable numbers, were found passing within less than one mile of Military Posts garrisoned by a company of Regular Soldiers. The frontier should indeed be protected, but the only certain and permanent defence is to be found in an energetic, and continuous prosecution of the War in the enimy's own country.
Keep him employed at home, and he will find but little time to annoy the settlements, and if such annoyance should be offered, instead of with drawing the Army, and placing it as a guard for the frontier let the settlements be defended as they were by the Volunteers and Militia during the first two years of the War, and let the Army continue to hunt the enemy in the Peninsula. No one will pretend that the principal force of the enemy is to be sought in Middle and West Florida, or that he could not be driven out by the volunteers and Militia.
The Secretary of War describes them as “Small bands of Indians still lurking there”. Why did he not permit a volunteer or Militia force to be employed to drive them out. On the night of the 13 May
1" Original not found; printed, S. Doc. 278, 26 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 160–162.

last three families were attacked on the Appalachicola River and 13
persons destroyed. Since that time numerous other attacks have been made, and murders committed, and not one moment of safety, and tranquility has been experienced in the sparce settlements in that quarter. Your Memorialist then offered to expel the enemy with the local Troops, and asked for supplies for that purpose, which was refused, (see his correspondence with Col Deavenport enclosed to the President and Secretary of War.) What apology then can be offered for the Sect of War in with drawing the Army from the enemy's country, and suspending offensive operations, to hunt the “small bands of the Indians lurking in West and Middle Florida. Are not the resources of this nation sufficient to afford a guard for the frontier while, the Army prosecutes the war against the enemy to a final termination?– And if the army, as it is now employed should succeed (of which there is but little hope) in driving out these “small bands of Indians”, when it advances again to seek the enemy in his strong hold on the Peninsula, what is to prevent those “small bands” and others from returning, to visit in blood and spoil of the frontier settler. For four Years has this struggle continued with unremitted horrors, for four years has the Frontier been gradually receeding before the advance of the enemy. It still continues to receed, and the fall of every house and the destruction of every family adds new Territory to the dominion of the savages. If the people of this ill-fated Territory are to be saved from impending dangers & apparent ruin. If this disasterous and harrassing conflict, is ever to be closed, except by the expulsion of the white-man from Florida, the war must be conducted on a different plan and with increased energy. For the views long entertained by your Memorialist, on this subject, he again respectfully invites the attention of Your Honb". Body to his letter addressed to the President of the United States on the 28" of July last.
If Your Memorialist in his attempt to seek redress for an injury personal to himself, should succeed in drawing the attention of Congress, to the abuses of Power, the mal-administration of the War Department, and the suffering and relief of Florida, he will regard his removal from office as one of the happyest events of his life. With the hope of producing this desirable result, Your Memorialist as a citizen of this Territory, prays that a special committee be appointed to enquire into the manner in which the war has been conducted by the present incumbent of the War Department. What time the campaign has commenced, and what time it has closed in each and every year.
What proportion of the time has been spent in negociations with the enemy, and what are the plans of the Secretary, for closing the war. Your Memorialist further prays that Congress will adopt the necessary measures to enforce a vigerous, and energetic prosecution

of the war with the seminoles until it shall have been brought to a successful termination."
And your Memorialist will ever pray.
R K CALL
[Endorsed] 26" Cong 1. Sess Memorial of Richard K. Call, praying that an inquiry may be instituted, into the manner in which the war against the hostile Indians in Florida, has been conducted. 1840
March 24 Referred to the Com: on Military Affairs July 16 discharged" Mr Preston"
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:Miss]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 27th February 1840
To the Honorable the Senate of the Legislative Council, I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names and request the consent of the Legislative Council thereto, Thomas Brown to be Auditor of the Territory of Florida Thomas H. Austin to be Treasurer of the Territory of Florida Francis Holden J. C. Morton William Morton to be Notaries Public for Franklin County Robert Goodlett Lumber Inspector for Franklin County J. C. Morton Tax Collector for Franklin County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID"
</docbody>
<dochead>MESSAGE OF GOVERNOR REID TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.: Pr.”]</source>
<place-time>Executive Department, TALLAHASSEE, Feb. 28, 1840</place-time>
<docbody>Having been informed that the Legislative Council will probably adjourn in a few days, your attention is respectfully invited to the

measures proper to be adopted for the further prosecution of the Savage War in which we are involved.
Since you have been in session, a number of our people, among them a woman and her children have been literally butchered by the Indians, many of whom occupy the swamps and other fastnesses of Western Florida, from the Apalachicola, and even beyond it, to the Suwannee; while, in East Florida, the recent murder of the mail carriers, within a few miles of St. Augustine, prove how unavailing has been every effort to restrain the enemy in that quarter. Indeed, it would seem, that these Wild Beasts, for so they deserve to be considered; their cruelties and thirst for blood, place them beyond the pale of humanity—these wild beasts, are becoming more and more audacious, their deeds of horror are rather accumulating than diminishing; they venture to assail houses, and appear in our public roads in the open day; they press beyond military posts to perpetrate their murderous purposes, and start up like evil spirits, when least expected to appear, to destroy the brave, virtuous and innocent. The number of Seminole Indians in the country, can only be conjectured, but it is believed, to be greater than is generally supposed. There are probably many Creeks and some Cherokees, and even some of Seminoles, deported to the West, it is said, have returned; but be the number great or small, every thicket and deep forest is liable to be occupied by them; they elude pursuit—to drive them thoroughly from one part of the country to another, is impracticable, and it is ascertained that during the past year, they have planted and make crops, within a few miles of military stations. Our situation is verging upon desperation—
men sleep with arms under their pillows—a sense of insecurity accompanies the traveller in his journey on the highway—every neighborhood has its tale of blood and those who are in authority look around with pain and distress, because they are powerless to afford an adequate remedy, for the evils thronging around them in every direction.
This is no exaggerated picture, of our present condition. Romance lags far behind the sad realities, we daily witness, and it becomes our duty to consider, what may be done for the relief of the country!
To such measures as shall be adopted, by the Federal Government, for “the pacification of Florida,” I am quite sure we will lend a hearty concurrence and support. But, being upon the spot—with the disastrous circumstances near to the view—any plan of operations recommended by the authorities of Florida, will doubtless meet at Washington, an attentive consideration.
I am persuaded that if it were in the power of the government to fill the country with an overwhelming force—and to hunt, and pursue the Indians in every direction; vexed, tired and harrassed, they would

soon yield to such terms as might be imposed upon them; but as it is not probable, that under existing circumstances, a large army will be thrown into the Territory—some other course, more practicable in its character, must be devised. I am inclined to think then, that three Brigades, acting with energy, and under that discipline which befits the peculiar service, to which they would be called—might be competent to the attainment of the object we all have so anxiously at heart.
Two of these brigades would be of Volunteers and the other of Regulars, all enlisted during the War, with the pay of Cavalry or Dragoons, and a bounty of land: 320 acres to each private, and to the officers in proportion; to be bestowed upon the final establishment of peace. The regiments composing the brigades, should each consist of from, ten to twelve companies, of fifty men each, formed according to the organization of the Regular Army of the United States.
The volunteers could not be better commanded, than by the Brigadiers of the Territory, who have received their commissions from the President, and who have both distinguished themselves during the present disastrous conflict. If there were no other events, in which they have been prominent, the gallant, and successful enterprise of the Block House, on the Withlacoochee, and the capture of King Philip and the Euchee Chief, will secure to these Floridians, a bright page in the History of this devoted Land. These officers would of course be under the command of the General, commanding the U. States Brigade. One third, perhaps one fourth, of the whole number of men, should be of Cavalry, and the rest Infantry; for the latter are better calculated for Indian fighting. The Indians act on foot, and on foot, they should be followed. Their apparrel is light, and so should be that of their pursuers—they are able to encounter fatigue, hardship and hunger, and those who oppose them should be trained to endure the same difficultier and privations.
With these troops—always in action—ever in search of the foe, pressing him sorely wherever he may be found, and following him through the Swamps and Hammocks of the country, the war could not be of long continuance—the more especially, should both Regulars and Volunteers, cultivate a good understanding with each other, and open their hearts to the emotions of a generous rivalry, fervent patriotism, and a valorous determination to win that Glory, which must belong to those, who shall rescue Florida, from her grievous and bitter woes.
It is with masses of men, as with individuals—let the superiority of mental and physical power be what it may—nothing can be accomplished without a spirit—let it be called enthusiasm, if you will, which

brings every energy into play, and vigorously bends it to the accomplishment of the desired purpose.
Supposing the plan proposed to be adopted: the companies at present in the Territorial service, would be merged in the army of volunteers, and the Territory saved from the expenditure, to which it is now subject; an expenditure called for by the necessity of the case, and for the reimbursement of which, the Territory must look to the General Government.
The militia laws should be enforced—the people well armed, and every company divided into detachments, each ready to proceed at a moments warning, against the Indians should they appear in its vicinity. For these services whenever called for, and performed, the militia should be entitled to pay, upon due proof of the exigency, and of the service performed.
With our people armed, acting in concert, and always prepared for the strife, it is believed that many of the benefits expected from
“the Armed occupation Bill” now before Congress, would be experienced, and the martial tone, and efficacy demanded by the crisis, would belong to the character of our citizens.
No occasion has yet occurred for testing, the usefulness of the Dogs bro’t from Cuba. It is still believed, however, that they may be used with effect; and why should they not be used? If robbers and assassins assail us, may we not defend our property and our lives even with Bloodhounds? Shall we look upon our ruined dwellings—
upon the murdered and mangled bodies of men, women and children, and then meekly say, “the poor Indians have done this—we must be merciful and humane to them—we will not set our dogs upon them—
oh! no, that would be more horrible than these butcheries.” Those who are safe from Indian alarms in distant cities and peaceful lands, may indulge in gentle strains of humanity and brotherly love—were they dwellers in the log cabins of Florida, they would attune their notes to harsher measures. Let these men, in whose hearts there is such a gush of the “milk of human kindness,” consider attentively, a scene recently exhibited, upon the Apalachicola. Mr. Harlans dwelling was burned, and his family murdered in the afternoon of the 29th of January last. Mr. H. was absent, and an eye witness, gives the following account of the return of the unhappy man, with an armed party, on the day after the occurrence.
“On arriving at the spot, we found every house reduced to ashes, and at the kitchen door the bones of a human being nearly burnt up;
after examining all around, we saw the track of moccasins making ingress and egress the same course. On the trail not far off, we saw articles of clothing, potatoes and papers dropped—about twenty-one persons armed, now arrived from Iola, amongst them Mr. Harlan, 

who in a wretched state of feelings, proceeded to examine the burnt bones, which he believed to be those of his wife and a son, whose knife he found amongst them. One of the company in searching behind the garden about 100 yards off—called out ‘Come here Harlan, here is your Wife, joy immediately sprang to my bosom, and I ran to see the dead come to life, where there was a general rush—but lo! I found Mrs. H. lying prostrate on the ground, behind some pine logs, with her throat cut, a ball shot through her arm, one in her back, and a fatal shot in the head, which must have been very near, as the patch of the ball was sticking to her head. Her youngest son, say 8 years old, lay near her side, with his skull fractured, by a pine stick which lay near him. He exhibited signs of life, and I had him carried to a shelter, water given him, and his feet, which were cold, put in warm water, and faint hopes are now entertained of his recovery. Had you witnessed the heart rending sight of Mr. H. embracing his little son, and calling him by his nickname ‘Buddy! Buddy! Buddy!' with the solemn sound of parental affection, sunk to the lowest ebb of dejection, and then running to the corpse of his wife, with his arms around her crying out ‘My Wife! My dear Wife! Oh, my dear Wife!” I know your feelings would have given way as mine did; I had always felt a sympathy for these merciless savages, but my heart now assumed a stern fortitude, foreign to its nature, and I felt like not leaving an Indian foot to make a track in the ashes of the desolation they have made.”
Who can read this extract from the letter of a highly respectable gentleman, without anguish? Who can witness such atrocities without admitting it to be lawful to use blood hounds against such hell hounds?
A citizen, remarkable for his piety, integrity and intelligence, lately exclaimed in my presence, “I would use devils, if I could, against such an enemy,” and I am compelled to yield assent to the sentiment.
The introduction of these animals is entirely, it is believed, a Territorial measure. It is creditable to the officer with whom it originated, and whose ample justification is the stern necessity which required it.
In the straight to which we are driven, the severest means are the best means, and whatever tends to the speedy termination of our protracted difficulties, will tend also to the preservation of human life, and to the advancement of the cause of humanity.
It is matter of regret to me, that before communicating these views to you, I have not had an opportunity of personally conferring with the officer commanding the U.S. troops in Florida. From his experience and military skill, I had expected to derive much aid, and this communication has been delayed by the hope to avail myself of them.

The opinions now expressed, have been formed after some deliberation, and it is my sincere belief that the scheme proposed, will, if adopted by the General Government, and rigorously enforced, put an end to our difficulties. It is my solemn conviction, that the only mode of conquering the Indians, is to hunt and pursue them in every direction, with a competent force of brave and hardy men, devoted to the service, and generously rewarded by their country for the peril and privations they endure.”
ROBERT RAYMOND REID.
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 28, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Be it Resolved by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida:—
That the Delegate in Congress be requested, respectfully to urge upon the constituted authorities of the United States, at the seat of Government, the settlement at an early day, of all equitable claims of the Territory of Florida, for any debts incured, or monies expended, in defending the frontier Citizens from the incursions of the Hostile Indians Be it further Resolved That His Excellency the Governor be and he is hereby requested, at as early a day as practicable, to cause to be prepared and properly Certified the claims contemplated in the foregoing Resolution and together with these Resolutions, to transmit the same to the Delegate without delay Adopted by the House of Representatives Feby 28* 1840 att:
James H. Gibson Clerk. House of Representatives RICHARD H. LONG Speaker of the House of Representatives Adopted by the Senate Feby 27* 1840 att J S Robinson Secy Senate GEORGES HAWKINS
President of the Senate
[Endorsed] Florida–Legislature reimburse—expenditures Florida War—March 16 1840 Ref" to the Committee on the Territories *
Dec. 21. 1840 Ref" to Com" on the Territories.” Downing Leg. Coun.

Resolutions to be reimbursed the monies spent by the Territory &
its citizens in defence against the Indians Territories *
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Gov.rs. Let Bk.:M*]
Executive Department Tallahassee 29th February 1840
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the Legislative Council of Florida I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names & request the consent of the Legislative Council thereto.
John C. Jacobi Measurer & Inspector of Lumber Leon County James L. Hart Tax Collector of Leon County Raphael D. Fontane Auctioneer for St: Johns County Charles Evans Judge of the County Court Escambia Joseph Forsyth Justice of the Peace of Escambia County John R. Rowles Notary Public for Leon County Nehemiah Hoyden James Roach Notaries Public for Calhoun County Benjamin Millachamp Sharpless Evans Justices of the Peace of Washington County L M Bright Notary Public for Washington County Jos Lockey Auctioneer for Washington County *—
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS 27]</source>
<place-time>[February 29, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Preamble and resolution Whereas many citizens of Florida have settled on, and in many cases purchased from the U States lands which were afterwards by decrees of the Courts of the U States awarded to Sundry claimants of large tracts of country, and the said citizens were assured in many cases by the officers of the United States that those large claims or grants would not be confirmed, and that the settlers thereon would be entitled to the benefit of the pre emption laws, in consequence of which assurances, many settlers made extensive improvements on

lands which were afterwards confirmed as aforesaid to large grantees, and which they have been compelled to abandon; and according to the regulations of the land office they are prevented from locating their Preemptions elsewhere on vacant land Be it resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, that the Delegate in Congress be requested to procure the passage of a law giving to all such settlers a right of preemption elsewhere on the public lands in this Territory on such terms as may be deemed just and equitable and that a copy of this preamble and resolution be forwarded to the President of the Senate of the U States to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the Delegate from this Territory RICHARD H LONG
Speaker of the House of Representatives Adopted by the House of Representatives Febry 29* 1840 att.
J. H. Gibson clk.
GEORGE S. HAWKINS.
President of the Senate.
Adopted by the Senate March 2" 1840 att J S Robinson Secy Senate
[Endorsed 26* Cong 1. Sess Resolutions of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Florida for the passage of law granting floating preemption rights to certain settlers on lands covered by Spanish claims in that Territory. 1840 March 16. Referred to the Com:
on Public Lands * April 21, Discharged * Vice President.
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M**]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 2nd March 1840
To the Honorable the Senate of the Legislative Council of Florida I respectively nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names and request the consent of the Legislative Council thereto, Felix H. G. Long to be Notary Public for Washington County William Hall to be Auctioneer for Leon County Peter B. Boutan to be Justice of the Peace for St: Johns County

John Wooten Justice of the Peace for Gadsden County John R. Taylor Tax collector Jefferson County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID 30
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[March 2, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That the Delegate in Congress be requested to obtain the passage of an act of Congress organizing an armed force for the defence of the people and prosecution of the war in Florida; based on and conformable to the views contained in the Message of the Governor dated February 27th 1840 * and that said law be urged with all practicable dispatch—
Resolved that the attention of the President of the United States and of the Secretary of War be respectfully called to the suggestions and plan contained in said Message, and that this Council in behalf of the People of Florida earnestly invoke their aid in calling the attention of Congress to the subject—
Adopted by the House of Representatives March 2nd 1840 J. H.
Gibson Clk, RICHARD H. LONG Speaker of the House of Representatives Adopted by the Senate March 2nd 1840 att J. S. Robinson Secy Senate GEORGE S. HAWKINS
President of the Senate Approved 2" March 1840
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID Governor I Robert Raymond Reid Governor of the Territory of Florida do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the original Resolutions of the Legislative Council of Florida In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
[Seal] caused the Seal of the Territory to be affixed this 13"
day of March A. D. 1840
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
[Endorsed] Florida—Leg. Resolution Legislative Council Organizing armed Force—Mil. Affairs May 25 1840 Ref" to the Committee on Military Affs.”—Downing 16

</docbody>
<dochead>REPORT OF TERRITORIAL SENATE RE INDIAN AFFAIRS</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[March 2, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>The committee on the state of the Territory to whom was refered the special message of His Excellency the Gov. on the subject of the Indian War,” make the following report that the condition of the Territory call loudly for the adoption of immdiate action measures by the Government of the United States, to repress the recurence of further acts of hostility by those savage murderers—
The murder of the two mail carriers in the East, together with the murders in the West so pathetically portrayed in the message refered—
although awful in their caracter, scarcely place the condition of affairs in any worse light than they have been for the last two years; The Legislative Council have at previous sessions strongly urged upon the authorities of the United States the adoption of some rigorous measures in relation to this war * and the late Executive officer of the Territory was incessant in his appeals to Washington on this subject, in which various plans were reccommended, all of which, as well as the memorials of the Legislative Council, have been treated with silent contempt, and the people of Florida have been abandoned to their fate, in a stern and unrelenting manner by the Head of the War Department—During the present session of the Legislative council, not withstanding the members were satisfied that the situation of the country called loudly for relief. there was a disposition on their part generally to say more to Congress, or the Heads of Departments, at Washington than had been already so often and so ineffectually urged: and it was not intended by us to obtrude ourselves further on the notice of the Government. But the message of the Governor has called on us to make one more appeal & which it is earnestly hoped will not share the fate of previous memorials &
petitions on this subject-
The committee has indulged the hope that the Bill passed by the Senate of the United States (which bill was introduced by the Hon Senator from Missouri") would have been so modified as to have required an organization of the settlers produced to be introduced in the manner suggested in the memorial of the Legislative Council of

the last session;” this measure adopted would have rendered the men efficient, by encouraging emulation between the different corps or commands, & would moreover have secured to us the service of a body of respectable & hardy citizens from the adjoining states, of Georgia Alabama & South Carolina, who will never enter the service under the provisions of the Bill as it has passed the Senate—
A copy of this memorial is sent herewith,” with the hope that the suggestions contained in it, may meet with the favourable notice of Congress should this Bill be still under consideration—Should not this or other measures be devised by Congress, your Committee would respectfully urge the adoption of the measures proposed by His Excellency the Governor, the men proposed to be raised can be immediately enlisted on those terms, & forms a judicious plan, of ridding the Country of this murderous band with which it has been so long infested—
The Committee ask to introduce the following resolution, Resolved by the Senate of Florida that copies of the message of His Excellency the Governor, together with a copy of this report and a copy of the memorial of the Legislative Council to Congress, adopted last session be immediately forwarded to the Delegate in Congress to be laid before them—
W. J. MILLS, Chairman Adopted by the Senate March 2nd 1840 Attest J S Robinson Secretary of the Senate.
[Addressed] Hon” Charles Dowing Washington City D.C.
[Endorsed] Florida–Legislature proceedings & Memorial in relation to the Indian War in Florida March 16, 1840 Ref" to the Committee on Military Affairs.” Mr. Downing Leg. Council report Com. (mily
& memo. of last year conduct of War, & Gov" war message JAMES WHITCOMB TO REGISTERS AND RECEIVERS
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Reg. & Rec., Bk. 12]</source>
<place-time>4 March 1840. REGISTER & RECEIVER, Tallahassee Florida R & R. S*Augustine. F. T.</place-time>
GENTLEMEN, I have to inform you that on the application of the Hon. Secretary of War the President has ordered the Cedar Key

Islands lying off the mouth of the Suwanee River and partly or wholly within Your district to be reserved for Military purposes, and You are hereby required to withhold them from sale or entry accordingly.”
These Islands and the lands in their Vicinity not having been Yet Surveyed, the Surveyor General has this day been instructed to designate them on the official plats of Survey which shall be returned by him to Your Office and to this, as reserved for the purposes above specified.” In the mean time, it would be well if You have a connected map in Your Office to have the reservation noted upon it, that it may Serve as an additional Check against permitting entries therein.*
I am Very respectfully Your Obt. Servi.
JAS. WHITCOMB Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID AND OTHERS TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[LC:Van Buren Papers:LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Flor. March 5* 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EXCELLENCY M. WAN BUREN President of the United States.
SIR Since the election for Delegate in May last, Circumstances have occurred which have greatly increased the numbers of those who were opposed to the election of the gentleman who fills that station.
His course towards the Administration—that in regard to the admission of Florida as a State, and the Division of the Territory—that in regard to the Florida faith bond Banks and those speculators who have been dabbling in spurious grants *—And his Conduct with respect to appointments to office here, have Created distrust and want of Confidence with many who have heretofore been inclined to be his friends. Especially are the true friends of the Administration here satisfied that so far from representing their wishes and feelings fairly, he is in truth and in fact with the enemy. Florida is in a Critical position. The events of a few months will have a lasting effect upon her future political character. The Democratic party here if not sustained at Washington—if the influence of the present Delegate directly or his secret efforts through others indirectly are allowed to sway, will encounter difficulty in maintaining their ground, and the new State may be found in Congress arrayed against the Administration. The mass of our people are Democratic. If strengthened and

encouraged as we should be, despite the formidable array of paper and Corporation wealth and federal Whiggery opposed to us, we shall triumph.
The Undersigned after full advisement with each other and with the democratic Members of the Legislature which has just risen, have requested David Levy Esquire of St. Augustine, to visit Washington and make your Excellency acquainted with the true state of affairs here. We would respectfully request your Excellency to look to his representations as affording correct & Authentic information of our feelings and situation. We have consulted with him freely and we assure you that the most implicit Confidence can be reposed in all he may Communicate.
Your very Obt. Servants.
Robert: Raymond: Reid N. W. Walker Jn” Branch James D. Westcott Jr.
IG Searcy Charles S Sibley Leigh Read James A. Berthelot J. M°Cants L. A. Thompson Thomas Baltzell Walker Anderson Sam Sibley Ed. Floridian John Miller Wm H. Francis Joseph Branch H. Spengler John Dodge C. P. Lyman Henry Washington Ja” A. Whitaker H Archer—
E I G Tillinghast D M Rainy Sheriff Leon Co. E. E. Blackburn, of Jefferson Co
[Endorsed] Petition from Florida."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO WILLIAM H. CHASE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, Lets. to Officers, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON March 7, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>MAJ. W. H. CHASE Corps of Engineers Pensacola. Fla.
SIR In answer to your letter of the 22" ult” I have to state that yours of the 20" Nov 1839 * suggesting that the Fort on Foster's bank be named Fort M*Ree" was referred to the Secretary of War on the 23" December,” and the suggestion approved by him. The

official endorsement to this effect was transmitted to the Adjutant General on the 28" of the same month,” for promulgation in orders, and you would have been informed at once of the circumstance had not this announcement been expected long ere this. This announcement is daily looked for.—In the meantime you are authorized to use the name in the papers belonging to the work; since it has been published by the Adjutant General in the Army Register, of which we were not informed however until the receipt of your letter.
I am &c Jos. G. ToTTEN Col & Chf Eng"
<dochead>CHARLES S. SIBLEY TO MATTHEW BIRCHARD</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:C 52]</source>
(Copy)
Office U. S. Atty Mid Dist Florida TALLAHASSEE March 11" 1840.
SIR Information has been received here from a source which I
think entitled to credit, of the death of Samuel. H. Duval Marshal of this District who left a short time since for Pensacola. At the last January term of the Court of Appeals, I obtained rule against him and his securities (a copy which I enclose)* to compel the payment of certain monies arising from the sale of the Schooner Emperor, which was sold by him, by order of Court as will appear by the rule, which vessel has since been forfeited to the U States by the decree of the Court of appeals. No return has been made to the rule by the Marshal. I understand the vessel sold for $16.00.
M” Duval had a claim against the U States for keeping eight African negroes, imported in this vessel which is yet unsettled, Also a claim of $400 for informing against said negroes. The object of the present letter is to request that these claims due the late Marshal may be appropriated to the payment into the registry of the Court the proceeds of the sale of the Schooner Emperor.
There is also an account due by him to the General Post Office for monies collected on execution. I have no doubt that on a settlement of his current accounts with the United States, the Government will fall in debt to him.
It may perhaps be important that I should be furnished forthwith with certified copies of any official bond or bonds executed by him, which may have been forwarded to Washington. Different sets of Bonds, I learn, were executed with different securities, and it is

believed if the securities should be sufficient, which is doubted, to meet the demands of Plaintiff’s, dispute will be made on account of the tenor of the bonds &" I had nothing to do with the execution of the Bonds, I believe, and can state nothing with regard to them.
May I ask of you to enquire for me at the Treasury or State Department for any bonds which may have been transmitted and forward me copies, as also the date of his Official Oath on file. They will be necessary to procure the Emperor and Post Office money if he is in arrear. Please show this letter to the Secretary of the Treasury.”
I am very respectfully Your Ob" servant
(Signed) CHARLES. S. SIBLEY U States Atty M. BIRCHARD Esq Solicitor of the Treasury Washington
[Endorsed] Recd. with M. Birchard's March 19"
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ISAAC H. BRONSONAS JUDGE (EASTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[March 14, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN WAN BUREN President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of ISAAC H. BRONSON of New York, I have nominated and by & with the advice & Consent of the Senate.” Do appoint him Judge of the United States, for the Eastern district of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said ISAAC H. BRONSON, for the term of four years, * See the Secretary of State to the Comptroller of the Treasury, Jan. 27, 1840
(NA, SD, Dom. Lets., XXX), announcing the serious illness of DuVal; Robert Mitchell to the Secretary of the Treasury, Mar. 10, 1840 (NA, GAO, 1st Compt.
Lets. Recd., Colls. Fla), reporting that DuVal had recently died insolvent, that he had kept public money received from the schooner Emperor, seized for importing slaves, and that he had been published by authority of the Legislative Council as a defaulter; Sibley to Birchard, Mar. 11, 1840 (NA, JD, Sol. Treas.
Lets. Recd.), to the same purport, adding that DuVal had claims against the U.S. for maintaining the slaves, and sums were due him from the P.O. Dept.
See also Birchard to Sibley, Mar. 26, 1840 (NA, JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. of Debts and Suits, 18), transmitting an account of Samuel H. DuVal showing a balance due the U.S. of $3,323.

from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the U. States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 14" day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty, and of the Independance of the United States of America, the 64* *
M. WAN BUREN
By the President, J. FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ALFRED BALCH AS JUDGE (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[March 14, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN WAN BUREN President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of ALFRED BALCH of Tennessee, I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the Senate, "
Do appoint him Judge of the U States for the middle district of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said ALFRED BALCH, for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the fourteenth day of March in the year of our Lord

one thousand eight hundred and forty, and of the Independance of the United States of America, the 64* *
M. WAN BUREN
By the President, J. FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, xxx]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE W. 16 March, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>R. R. REID Esqr. Gov" of Florida, Tallahassee.
SIR, Your letter of the 2" instant marked private & confidential has been received.” The present term of service of Mr. Willis Marshal for South Florida will expire on the 8" June next. If from information in your possession, or within your reach, you should be of opinion that the public interest would be promoted by an immediate change in that office, it is the desire of the President that you should state the fact to this Department, and, at the same time, present the name of some suitable person to fill it, and willing to accept the office, when it shall become vacant, whether by the removal of the incumbent, or by the expiration of his present commission—
I am &c.
Signed—JoHN FORSYTH
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS FROM THE OFFICERS OF THE SUPERIOR COURT, SOUTHERN DISTRICT</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred March 16, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honourable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.
The memorial of the undersigned, members of the Bar and officers of the Superior Court, for the Southern District of Florida, respectfully represent that by an Act of the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida passed in 1836,” the County of Monroe in the Southern District was divided and the County of Dade was set

off from it. The Territorial Legislature also directed one term of the Superior Court to be held annually at Dade County so that by existing laws jurors cannot be drawn from one county to serve in the other.
Congress in the year 1836 annulled the Territorial law establishing a court in Dade "yet it was re-enacted by the Legislative Council at its very next session in 1837 * and has remained in force since that period.
Criminal justice cannot be administered at all in Dade County there being but about twenty jurors in the whole county which number is too limited to form grand & pettit Juries. In Monroe County there are but about fifty jurors and after rejecting a jury of inquest and the grand jury, persons indicted for murder avail themselves of the right of twenty peremptory challenges and escape a trial. The Act of Congress for 1836 authorises the sending of criminals with their indictments to the Eastern or Middle District for trial when there is a deficiency of jurors in Monroe and to bind witnesses to appear there.
Yet it makes no provision for paying the expenses of such witnesses.
At the last session of the Court at Key West, Jose Honquin, a Portuguese, was indicted for murder; but for want of jurors, he was sent to Tallahassee, a distance of 400 miles, for trial at a great expense to Government. Twelve or thirteen witnesses have been recognised to appear there, all of whom are poor and most of them cannot obtain the money necessary for the voyage. There is now another prisoner in jail on the charge of murder, who will be indicted at the May term
& will probably be sent away for trial. Since 1837 three persons, charged with Capital offences have been sent away for trial for want of jurors—and they have escaped from prisons, or been acquitted, having been tried so great a distance from the residences of witnesses, that few could be induced to appear. The citizens of the county of Monroe have repeatedly petitioned, joined with the great bulk of the people of Dade, the Legislative Council, to abolish the court held in Dade County and authorise jurors to be summoned from the whole judicial District, which would ensure the administration of justice.
But these petitions have failed to produce any favorable result.
The people feeling that they are deprived of the ordinary protection by the sure administration of justice are now organizing Lynch tribunals—a resort of fearful tendency, leading the minds of men to disregard all law.
We the undersigned respectfully pray that the Territorial law of 1837
reestablishing a term of the Superior Court in the County of Dade be annulled and abolished and that the Territorial Legislature be pro-

hibitted from reestablishing it without the sanction of Congress. That the Superior Court for the Southern District of Florida be authorised to issue its writs of venire and cause jurors to be summoned from the whole District, regardless of county lines and finally that all white males above the age of 21 years residents of the Southern District and citizens of the United States, who are not otherwise disqualified be legal and competent jurors in the trial of all civil & criminal causes—
And will ever pray &c."
STEPHEN R. MALLORY
A. GORDON
L. WINDSOR SMITH
CHA M WELLS, Marshal T. A. PINKNEY, Clerk
[Endorsed] Florida—Members of the Bar of the Southern district—
against holding term in the County of Dade &c Territories March
16, 1840 Ref" to the Com" on the Territories "–Dec 21, 1840 Ref"
to Com" on the Territories" Downing 20
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JESSE MILLER</dochead>
<source>[NA: TD, ST Lets. to Cab. and Bureaus, Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT March 27" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>J. MILLER, Esqr 1st Auditor of the Try.
SIR, In reply to the enquiry, presented by your letter of the 26"
inst in reference to certain Certificates," which you have received for the pay of the Members of the Legislative Council of Florida Territory for the session which ended on the 2" inst I have to remark, that claims of this description for the year 1840, cannot be paid, until another appropriation for that object is made by Congress, & such information should be communicated to each individual who presents a claim at your office.
With the view to avoid the existing inconvenience which you suggest, of stating separate accounts of the Members for payment, a letter has, this day, been addressed to Joseph McCants, Esq." Secretary of the Territory of Florida, enquiring whether he would act as a disbursing Agent for certain of the Territorial expenditures of Florida.67
Very respectfully &c.
L. W. Secry of Try.

<dochead>JUDGE BALCH TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[LC:Van Buren Papers:ALS]</source>
TALLAHASSEE 3"April, 40.
DEAR SIR, I reached here on the 30" Ultimo after a detention on the road from high waters. The whole country was flooded. Some sensation arose amongst the friends and connexions of Judge Randall when the fact was made known that he was superseded, and some displeasure was felt towards me individually. I saw this difficulty in two hours after my arrival and determined if possible to walk out of it. Genl Call took no notice of me and rode by my lodgings whilst I was standing at the door but he did not deign to speak to me. As he is a leader here I was anxious to be on terms with him and the more especially as he has suits depending which I may be called on to try. If we were at points he might suppose me disinclined to do him exact justice. In conversation with a neutral individual of respectability I was asked if Genl Call had waited on me to which I replied that he had not and that I deeply regretted it. This individual I have no doubt communicated the remark for Genl Call came to see me this morning. The condition of affairs in this territory is deplorable. The leading men are divided into bitter parties and violence is the order of the day. Heretofore the Banking influence has been predominant, but now the most determined resistance is made to it and in fact it is tottering to its foundations as well it may since the paper of the Union Bank here is 25 per cent below Virginia paper and Virginia paper is 8 per cent below specie. The circulation of the Union Bank is $550,000 its specie $13,000. But, I refer you to Mr Blackburns report which it may be well for you to read when you have leisure. Govr Branch," who is a most honorable and honest man has been with me twice and communicated to me all his confidential views. He and his party are vehemently opposed to the Bank and yet he & his party are Stockholders in and borrowers from the Bank and of course helped to make it. It is true they own but little stock and have borrowed but little. I suggested to the Govr that he & his friends should procure instantly as much of the paper of the Bank as would discharge their liabilities and should then sell out their stock to the Bank at any price then washing their hands of the whole affair. The suggestion struck the Gov” like a thunder-bolt and he said that he would see to it instantly. Every body here is in favour of the admission of the territory as a state—some are in favour of creating two states and some are in favor of only one. But, * John Branch, a former Governor of North Carolina, who was appointed Governor of Florida Territory in 1844. See post, p. 943.

if Popes Bill" already reported is passed all will acquiesce. Hardly any body can be found here, who is not in favour at least by profession of your re-election. And there cannot be a doubt that a very large majority are sincerely in favour of your administration. One objection strongly urged against making middle and west Florida a state is, that it will create delay and prevent her from giving her vote to you in November. I beleive this objection to be sincere with many.
Very large numbers of actions of debt are depending in the Courts of this District. My coming so suddenly disappointed the debtor class who counted upon a delay of six months from the want of a judge. The Creditor class are highly pleased.
I reached here in the nick of time—my first court sits on Monday in Hamilton county on the Swanney 100 miles from here—I set out to morrow. My court sits in the adjoining county of Madison the Monday following—in Jefferson the monday after then here and lastly in Gadsden at the town of Quincy. You have assigned such a difficult part to play before this distracted, mercurial, impetuous and generous people in whom it is easy to see at a glance that there are the elements of a strong and enlightened community. But, I
shall make it my object to pursue an honest course. An honest man has nothing to fear before those amongst whom his lot is cast.
My steps will be taken with Caution—It is my intention to try every cause on the Common Law or Chancery Dockets that is at issue so that the suitors may turn their attention to other business and so that the people may see that the Adm" has sent a man amongst them who will transact their business for them."
Very respectfully & sincerely yours ALFRED BALCH.
[Addressed] To the President of the United States Washington
[Endorsed] Mr Balch ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB
<source>[NA:GLO, PLC, Incoming Corres.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE (no. 2) 3 April 1840</place-time>
TO THE COMMR. G. L. OFFICE
SIR, I have the honor to advise you that Mr R B Ker Deputy Surveyor made his returns of the Survey of the private claims of Collin

Mitchell & others under the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States on the 14 Feb” last. Their critical examination continued till the 22" and their preparation commenced on the day following, and were completed on the 26" Ult” in a highly satisfactory manner.
The Calculations have now to be made to ascertain their respective areas & which by the Calculation of the Surveyor amounts in the gross, to, One Million, four hundred twenty seven thousand five hundred and ninety eight 88/100 acres including the point yet undetermined at the Fortress of St Marks—There will be sixteen town plats to make shewing the connexion of the public lands with this Survey (3 copies of each numbering in all forty eight), the subdivisions & calculations of which, will be another arduous task: but my Clerk M. Nunes possesses a high degree of application for business, with an aptitude seldom equaled and withal a cheerful and willing spirit all of which I take pleasure in giving witness to—I have not made any additional appointments in this office from a belief that we are entirely competent for the present to perform the duties current, and no wish to make sinecure appointments; therefore shall only do so when I see the prospect brighter for the full extension of field operations all of which I hope you will readily approve."
I am very respectfully &c ROBERT BUTLER Surv' General
[Endorsed] S. G. Office Tallahassee 3" Ap' 1840 R. Butler S. G.
States that Mr R. B. Ker dep’ Surv made his return on the 14"
Feb" last of the Survey of the private claims of Collin Mitchel &
others, under the decree of the Sup. Court—with his (the Survr.
Gen' remarks in rel. to the same letter. N° 2. Mr Wilson Extract sent to Mr Delafield New York April 25, 1840.
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Executive Department; TALLAHASSEE 6th April 1840–</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In two of the Acts organizing the Territorial Government, the Governor is required to cause the Laws to be published “throughout the Territory””—but an Act of Congress subsequently passed, directs that the Legislature shall not order the Laws to be published
“in more than three Newspapers.”” My impression is that the last Law imposes no restriction upon the power given to the Governor by the Organic Laws. So circumscribed is the circulation of every news-

paper in the Territory, and so remote the settled portions of the Country and the principal Towns from each other—that there is an evident propriety in publishing the Laws in more than three Newspapers. I have ordered their publication at Key West—S" Augustine—and Tallahassee; and I wish to have them published at Apalachicola and Pensacola, should you concur with me in opinion that I have authority to do so.-Perhaps I ought not to trouble you with this matter and should act upon my own opinion, but I prefer to have yours if you will favor me with it 7"
With great respect I am—Sir respectfully, Yr ob Serv"
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
HON J. FORSYTH
[Endorsed] Rec" 19 April Mr Dickins THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE DOWNING
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>April 15th 1840.</place-time>
HON C. DOWNING House of Representatives.
SIR, I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 2" instant,”
enclosing a memorial of “sundry respectable citizens of St Augustine to be allowed to raise a company of twenty five men under the command of Papy Sanches to scout in that neighborhood”.
In reply I have respectfully to inform you that, permission was sometime since given for raising a company at St Augustine,” but on a representation from General Taylor that he had taken ample measures for the protection of the vicinity of St Augustine, and that it was unadvisable on many accounts to authorize the employment of separate and independent bodies of troops, that permission was withdrawn. This for the reasons assigned was satisfactory to the authorities of St Augustine, on whose application the permission was granted.
The same authorities have recently made application for a supply of arms and ammunition which has been complied with, and as the attention of the department is now directed to the protection of that vicinity and its intention is to give particular instructions on that subject, it is deemed unnecessary and unadvisable to comply with the application of the memorialists.
JRP.

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JUDGE MARVIN</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[April 21, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of WILLIAM MARVIN, I have nominated and by and with the advice and Consent of the Senate," Do appoint him Judge of the United States, for the Southern district of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said WILLIAM MARVIN, for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States, for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission—
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty first day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty—and of the Independance of the United States of America, the Sixty fourth.”
M. VAN BUREN
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF WINTON BUTLER AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attys. Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[April 21, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of VINTON BUTLER of Florida I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,”
Do appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Middle

district of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said WINTON BUTLER—for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof—unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty first Day of April in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty—and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty fourth.”
M. VAN BUREN
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ISHAM G. SEARCY AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[April 21, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of I. G. SEARCY I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, "Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Middle district of Florida and do authorized and empower him to execute and fulfil

the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said I.G. SEARCY for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty first Day of April in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty—and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty fourth.”
M. VAN BUREN
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>SAMUEL SIBLEY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE April 21, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HON JOHN FORSYTH Secy of State U.S.
The notice from the State Department of the Selection of the Floridian for publishing the Laws of the U.S. was received during the month of February, as also a copy of the same per last mail.
I accept the appointment with pleasure and will endeavor to attend to the duties required satisfactorily to the Department.
The Floridian being regularly sent to the Dept, and having some weeks since commenced the publication of the Laws, was considered by me an acceptance of the appointment not properly observing that part of the instructions requiring notice to be given the Dept.
I will endeavor to be more prompt in future.
Respectfully Your obt Servt.
SAM SIBLEY, Publisher Floridian, Tallahassee Fl.
[Addressed] Hon John Forsyth. Secy of State U. States Washington City, D.C. [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo. Apr 24 1840 Free
[Endorsed] Floridian accepts Publishing laws, May 4, 1840. Rec"

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY RESIDENTS OF ST. AUGUSTINE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS 84]</source>
<place-time>[April 22, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress Convened.—
Your Petitioners would respectfully represent. That the God of Nature, made the Suwannee River the Division Line or Boundary, between East and West Florida: and all subsequent earthly governments that have held these Territories, have sanctioned and confirmed
“The Division”, except the Government of the United States, which placed the two Territories under one Governor.
Your Petitioners have read with deep satisfaction and interest “The Bill” reported by the Hon M'. Pope in the House of Representatives
“To authorise the people of Middle & West Florida to form a constitution and State Government, and to provide for the admission of said State into the union:” "And most cordially do your Petitioners wish success and bid God speed to the middle & west, and to their project of a New State.—and with all of that Bill, your Petitioners are well suited, except with the last—or section thirteen, which reads as follows.
“Sec 13. And be it further enacted, That so soon as West Florida shall be admitted into the Union as a State, East Florida shall be established and constituted a separate Territory of the United States.”
Now Your Petitioners do most respectfully and earnestly ask and petition your Honorable Body, so to amend “the Bill” aforesaid, as that East Florida shall be “established and constituted a separate Territory”—immediately after the said Bill shall have become a Law of Congress, and that, without regards to, or dependance upon the action of West Florida.—In short, Your Petitioners respectfully ask and pray your Honorable Body to grant to East Florida Her ancient birthright—Division—independent of the policy or action of the Middle & West—and independent of any apprehended or threatened procrastination designed to put off or defeat the just, wise, patriotic

and simple measure of Division.
pray.”
And your Petitioners will ever Dated at S*Augustine EAST FLORIDA April 22" 1840.
Gab' W, Perpall J M Hanson B.A. Putnam Bernardo Segui John Rodman John Beard Jr Bartholome Oliveros M. H. Tucker W H Simmons D. W. Whitehurst David R Dunham Henry Wharton William Murrey Ch" Byrne John Lasserre John Simpson F Weedon Francis N Andreu Peter S Smith F. Bridier Joseph Canovas Joseph Sanchez W. T. Perpall Antonio Cannova G. G. Zehnbaun W. M. Simons John L. Williams Lorence Gracesqué
Peter Cercopoly Joseph Baya B. Leonardy Fran Medicis James Arnau Ch" M. Rowan Wm G DaViS
Augustine Lopez Andres pacetty Roque Leonardy George W Wallace Thomas Bellows J. G. Landon S: Fritzmann Hezekiah Pinkham J. L. Lyon K. Goldseen James Houston Thos. Russell George Gianople Francis Dustin George Remelspracher John Suinny John R. Mitchell James Knowles John Canovas Henry Grove Elias Wallen Elias A. Medicis A B Dupont Edmund Wallen Geo. W. Cole Jr—
J. C. Hemming N. Henry Daniel Hurlbert Darias Allen Bourguardes William Alford Levi Griffin Ferdinand Lee Jefferson Doe Jno H Dubs James Edwards Mathew Solana Henry Covert Louis Laffeve Donato Bravo Ch" Haager

F L OR I DA
Hamilton Weed John H Gates John H. Ballman Gregorio Bravo Paul Weidman James Hurlbert Matthew Long Raphael B. Canova G C Marandy Oen Quigley Caitano Solana D. B. Cook F. P. Ferreira Antonio Capo William R. Norriss Abrah" Dupont James Ponce John Ponce Junr John Ponce Sen"
Bartolo Lopes Joseph Masters Rafail Hemenis Reuben H. Pinkham Wm. B. Maclean James Cleaveland John Mussa S. I. Segui J. C. Abel Thomas Marshal FY Vail Frederick Josiah Quincy Henry Thomas Joseph Lowery John Pellicer Sen"
Thomas Douglas Jn" Drysdale Henry Axtell A. M. Reed F. Gui John Read James Rice Jacob Sole William Wright Lewis Mattair Columbia Cty
563214–62–10
G. Humphreys Antonio Pallecer Matias Capella John C. Cleland James Arnau C. E. O'Sullivan John Rose N. B. Murphy A. Tatin Francis Whitaker Jo” Hernandes Juan mastre Jo" Lopes Wm. Bevan Stevan Arnau Jr Lawrence Capella John C. Huther Matias Leonardy Martin Canovas Manuel Hernandez Andres C Pacetty John Ivers Stephen Lopez John Leonardy Joseph Baselle Joseph T Llambias John Carreras James Ris Ora Howard Whipple Allen Christian Boyd George Colee Sam Northrop John Abernethie Cha" Robion F.T. Avice Joseph Barrows Thos Hall E. A. Allen B. E. Carr & Co.
Oliver T HOWard Samuel Arey Geo. Bartlett Wm. BarbOur

Cristobal Bravo John Pellicer Luther Ransdale Bartolo Maestre Raphael Oleveras Arthur A Brown Raimond Sanchez Joseph L. Smith Michael De Medicis E F Zeile J W Williams S. T. Peck S Hill Williams Philipp Eckart J. H. Brush A. M. Andreu K. B. Gibbs Mitchel Hoffington Jno E. Peck Joseph Folk Nehemiah Brush J. R. Evertson Andres Pacetty Jun"
Mauricio Sanchez Thomas G. Lee Peter Burllie Jose Noda Isaac W. Avery James Barker Gasper N. Pappy William Monson B. Leonardy George W. Sprague Celestino Leonardy Andres Papy
[Endorsed] Florida Inhabts. East Florida, admit Middle & West Florida into the Union, and make East Florida a separate & distinct Territory. May 19. 1840 Referred to the Committee on the Territories" Dec 21, 1840 Ref" to Come" on the Territories * Downing Sundry Citizens of E. F. praying that M. & W. Florida be immediately admitted into the Union & E. F. be now made a seperate Territory Territories C Downing Reuben Lassiter Jose Papy Benjamin Harmon Charles Schultse Joseph Hill Antonio Noda Clemente DeTone Fernando Tolane Jacob Tores Bartolo Masters Jun"
A. Connor Joseph Sallas Sabastian Genovar Paul Canova John J Hedrick Wm L. Hurd Chris Andrews P Fogaytey Philip Rantay John Simpson Orian Whitaker Michael Papy Robt Campbell John R. Andreu Peter B. Boutan Joshua Joyner John M Bogue David Connor Gabriel Pacetty JW Joyner Joseph Baselle John Reyes John Hagan Wm Wilkie

139
[Section 2 of Subscribers to Petition] Dated at ST. AUGUSTINE, April 22, 1840.
Jose Bergallo Jn" Brown Tho"J. Higginbotham E. Harrison Innocencio Cardona Amos Latham Dan Waughan Jno. S. Villalonga
[Endorsed] Petition for Division John A. Cavedo Rob" Harrison Patrick H Price George Latham Samuell Cribb Rober Delany O. J. W. Boney Antonio Diaz
[Section 3 of Subscribers to Petition]
Dated at JACKSONVILLE Duval C° the 30" day of April 1840.
Jos. B. Lancaster E H Martin Daniel Joyce Isaac Bush Jn° W. Richard Shadrick Sapp Anderson Gillett James M. Rosy George Hiesler Solomon Huffingham C. C. Blanchard Jacob Gutterson Joseph M. Burrows Darius Ferris Seymour Pickett John S. Pickett James A Pickett Newman Youngblood Charles W. McMinn William Wood Stephen Eddy J. A. Coffee M. Simons A V Causse David L. Palmer H. H. Philips John Haulk W J Mills James B Colding L O Allen E Colson David Keen O Baxter David L. Wintringham Samuel Gragg George Huntley G. W. Walton James Plummer Wm. B. BartOn James Acker John Canniff Sylvester Acker Robert Bigelow Walter Hipp Lemuel A Bigelow Francis Richard Junior Rhuben C Rippley F. B. Mason Ansel Walker Wm Turner George Curry John Warren T. Wightman Samuel Roberts James Boothe George Fuller

Wm H. Hickman Henry Henderson William Presto[n]
Charles Brown James Latimer Darich Johnson Samuel R. Sweat John Caniday Louis Simpson W C Blydenburgh Samuel L. Sweat Robt. P. Field Daniel J. Mann Jessee Bennett G D Miller James James Thomas Gardiner Ja" McCormick William B Flinn John G. Brindley Joshua Fenimore David Silcock James Burney Amos P. Sherwood H. R. Blanchard Joseph Wilkinson Wm H LOWGen Isaac Wandizer James Sweat Edwd Wise Howes Hallet J. D. Hart Oscar B. Hart franco POnS
Solomon Moody James Bardin W" S. Donaldson John Green Fred" Parish Farq' Bethune Readie Keanon J. F. Halliday John G. Smith H D Holland Agustus Webber Aaron Tison John W: Herbert Geo. S. Herbert Wm E Brodnax G W Turner Henry F Campbell John D. Sheldon Jno. C. Richard Solomon Warren Charles W Summers D G Williams H R Seaton Aaron Jones jr Ossian B. Hart Alexander M*Kay Geo M*Kay Rodney Donnan R. B. Gregory D A Hemenway M K Pinckston William Penelton Rob" White Edmund Waring
[Endorsed] Florida Petition for Division Mar 3 1841 handed in by Mr. Dowing—not presented—
[Section 4 of Subscribers to Petition]
Dated at SAN Pablo, Duval C* Florida the 27" day of April 1840.
John C Houston James Simms William Simms Laurence Fatio John W Cox Edwin W. Cox I. Cuningham Elmore Reeve

Henry C. D masters William R. Hartshorne Henry Moore John Hinson Thos Hinson John Daniels Johns Walles P R. Walker John D. Braddock John Adams Samuel Smith John Smith Andrew Miller C. Taylor A C Merryman William H Houston Hartley Crooker Wm FOX
[Endorsed] Division Petition John Brutt Gilbert Gordon Walter Furman Henry M Lindsay L Haleverson Laurence Ryan John Daniels Andrew Floyd Jonathan B. Tichenor William Sanders Wm A Houston Samuel Hofman Joseph Browne Francis Bush James Ranes John Houston John Floyd
[Section 5 of Subscribers to Petition]
R. P. Lewis C. G. Thomas Joseph Morey Cornelius Johns J. M. Scott Abel Jones Alfred Hagan J. A. Pickitt Reuben Hagans W O. Simons Jackson Willis Nathaniel Jones Miles Price John Lopes John G. Tiner J. W. Ayres Walter Murphy Lewis W. Sparkman James J Higginbotham James D. Jones Benjamin Morse N R. Hall FORT HARLLEE May 25 1840
David Higginbothem William Penner Edward Turner John W. Moore Warren MOOre Cain J Strickland Wm. Mills Wm Priest John Sparkman Riley Moore Henry Moore Clement Tinir William Murphy Alfred Mooney Emra Priest Jabez Warren John Dickson William Adams Josiah Gates O. J. Turner J. G. Bleach Charles M*Kinney

John F. McDonell William Hope W. H. Cohen James Davis William Jeffres Ephraim Harrison Jacob Chambers Wm M. Steifel A. Q. Lyon James M. Sparkman Thomas C. Crosby Peter Sparkman Richard Howard Malachi Hagan John Wiggins Blake Williamson John Wiggins Elijah Shumway Levi J. Sparkman Ephraim Bleach Jeff Colt B S Perren George Burbank Lenoard B Tyner James Martin'
[Endorsed] Division Petition GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 23"Ap' 1840.</place-time>
SIR, In obedience to the instructions contained in your letter of the 3" of January last,” I have collected and now enclose to you all the information" I have as yet been able to obtain respecting the subjects mentioned in a Resolution of the Senate of the U. States of the 30" December 1839." I shall in the course of a few days have other information to communicate. A letter from the Secretary of the Territory to the President of the United States accompanies the enclosed documents.”—
I am, Sir, Very Respectfully Yo: Obt Serv"
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
THE HONORABLE JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State of the U. States
[Endorsed] Rec" 2 May Mr Dickins SECRETARY MCCANTS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Fla Secretary’s Office April 30th 1840</place-time>
HONORABLE JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State United States SIR In pursuance of instructions communicated through your department, I herewith forward the report of the particulars and

condition of the Pensacola Bank, and of the Rail Road connected by law with that institution”—The report is made by the Commissioners appointed under the Charter by his Excellency Robert Raymond Reid Governor of Florida The delay of this report to the present time, was owing to the distance of this institution from the Capital—
I have the honor to be Your Obt. Servt.
J. M*CANTS Secretary of Florida
[Endorsed] Rec" 12 May Mr Dickins GENERAL PRESENTMENTS OF THE CALHOUN COUNTY
</docbody>
<dochead>GRAND JURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:AC]</source>
<place-time>[April 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>General Presentments, Of the Grand Jury, at the April Term 1840, for the County of Calhoun, in the Superior Court.
The Grand Jury felicitate their fellow citizens upon the good order which has prevailed in our County during the last six months. But one case of a criminal character has come under the notice of their body, and that case embraced within the class of the lightest offences—
When we reflect upon the state of our society a few years ago, analogous, in its characteristics to most new settlements, where violent bold and lawless men jostle in the common walks of life, the peaceable and innofensive citizen, where the rights of the weak and peaceable, are only respected so long as they do not come in the way of the convenience, or the caprice, of the strong and the licentious, and contrast with this, the present state of our society, the equal protection and redress afforded to all our citizens, under the laws, it affords a cheering evidence to the Patriot and the Philanthropist, of the ameliorating and beneficient action of our system of Jurisprudence.
The Grand Jury consider it their duty to invoke the attention of our Delegate in Congress, (as has heretofore been done through various channels) to several subjects, vitally interesting to the rapidly increasing Commerce of this Port.
We extract from the general Presentment of the Grand Jury of this County for the April Term 1839,” and fully concur in and reiterate the importance of their reccommendations.
“The Grand Jury, speaking in behalf of the County of Calhoun, would take this occasion, through the Delegate to invoke the aid of Congress in the erection of a Marine Hospital in the City of St Joseph.
There is no point in the Gulf so healthy or eligible, and the interest

of humanity and commerce alike demand that some provision be made, on our Coast for the sick and pennyless Mariner, other recommendations to this effect, from our citizens and from the Legislative Council, have been forwarded to the Congress of the United States, and to them, and to the Bill passed the House of Representatives, at the last session, we ask the favourable consideration, of the present Congress.
Connected in the most direct channel, by Railroad and water navigation, with the interior of the States of Georgia and Alabama with a flourishing foreign and domestic Commerce, and a deep and capacious Harbour, we but promote the general interest of trade, and the national government, in asking an official survey, by a government officer of our Bar and Harbour. Contradictory opinions, by nautical men have been expressed as to the depth of water, in the entrance to St Joseph's Bay; all agree, however, that 20 feet, can be carried over at a fair tide, and if this, or a deeper channel, can be found, is it not the policy of government to fortify and improve this as a Naval station, made preferable to Pensacola, by its connection with the interior? We would therefore, suggest to our Delegate, that an enquiry into the necessity and practicability of fortifications be coupled with an examination of the Bar and Harbour, We would, also, respectfully solicit an appropriation for placing Buoys, on the middle ground, at the entrance to our Bay.
The Grand Jury, would also respectfully ask an appropriation of
$5000 dollars for the erection of a Court House in the City of St Joseph. Its central position to the other Ports of West Florida point it out as the most convenient site for the Courts of Admiralty after Florida, shall have become a State, It is contemplated by the citizens to subscribe a sum equal to that asked for, and as the U: States Courts would occupy such building free of charge economy, would be consulted in affording us the aid asked for.
It appears that the sixteenth section of Land, in this township which under a general law of Congress, is appropriated for School purposes, happens to lie in the Bay of St Joseph and we therefore consider that the Citizens of this Township, under these circumstances are peculiarly entitled to a float we respectfully call the attention of our Delegate to the subject and ask his exertions to procure us an other section of land in place of that referred to above.
The Grand Jury, would respectfully call the attention of Congress, through our Delegate, to the necessity for the erection of a Penitentiary, in this Territory. We hardly conceive it necessary at this day, to use arguments, to enforce the importance of this subject.
The experience of all the States, has long since proved that the various

grades of Crime, cannot be appropriately punished without them.
In the absence of Penitentiaries, resort must be had, in the punishment of malefactors, to corporeal inflictions a mode of punishment, altogether abhorrent to the enlightened sentiments of the age we live in, and when we reflect that under the penitentiary system of punishment reformation may and frequently does comport with the execution of the sentence of the Law while under the system of corporeal punishment now necessarily in practice here, such as cropping branding &" the indelible mark of infamy, is fixed upon the culprit, suspicion attends his footsteps through life, the finger of scorn is always pointed, a barrier is raised between him and respectable society which he cannot pass if he would. The stimulus to virtuous exertion is gone, and he wanders on through the world, an outcast from its humanities and its sympathies, a marked and miserable man. Humanity, civilization and Justice, therefore demand that Florida be releived from the necessity of prosecuting a system of punishment so repugnant to the benign policy of this enlightened day.
We notice that an appropriation has been granted by Congress to the Territory of Iowa for the erection of a Penitentiary,” and we have reason to believe that Congress will be equally liberal in a Donation for this purpose to Florida.
The Grand Jury have remarked that a Bill has been introduced into Congress by the Chairman of the Committee on Territories for the partition of this Territory and the erection of middle and West Florida into a state.” The object and the provisions of that Bill meet their entire concurrence and they indulge an earnest hope that it may receive the favourable consideration of Congress. An appropriation of $10.000 was made by Congress more than 12 months ago for the construction of a Road from Iola to Tallahassee " and a survey was ordered to be made forthwith. The Citizens of this County as well as those of Gadsden and Leon Counties are much interested in the speedy completion of this work and we have been waiting, with much anxiety, to see a demonstration made to that effect; but so far, nothing has been done. The Grand Jury cannot conceive any good reason for this delay and would respectfully direct the attention of our Delegate in Congress to this subject.

The Grand Jury embrace, with much pleasure, the oppertunity now afforded them, in retiring from their duties, of expressing their high consideration of the integrity, impartiality and legal ability of his Honour the Judge of this District and also of the fearlessness, energy and industry of the very talented Solicitor, much, very much, the Grand Jury beleive, of the improvement in our moral condition, before referred to, is attributable to the excellence of our criminal Judicatory.
Henry F: Simmons Foreman— Francis Arnau G. A. Pease Robert Whipple J. C. Maclay John T. Gist Jno. N. Copeland C. L. Demarest Walter Thompson Thomas Montague Daniel Munn Ellis Davis M. L. Cavert James L. Barber Edwd Bolin John Dyckman W" H. Shepherd Wm J. Fletcher E. B. Fuller Territory of Florida Calhoun County I Cambel M*Eachran Clerk of the Superior Court of Law for the said County of Calhoun in the aforesaid Territory, do hereby Certify, that the foregoing is a true Copy of the original filed in this Office In testimony whereof, I hereto set my hand and annex the seal of the said Court (there being no seal of office) this twenty seventh day of April A. D. 1840.
CAMBEL M*EACHRAN Clerk
[Endorsed] Florida—Grand Jury Presentments G. J. Calhoun Cty Flor Spring Term 1840 Division of Territory Survey of St Joseph harbor, Erection of a Court House and Penitenitary &" &" Dec. 31
1840 Ref" to the Committee on the Territories" Downing Territories THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO RICHARD H. LONG
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book G2]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT May 1st 1840</place-time>
RICHARD H. LONG Esq. Marianna Jackson Co. Fl. T.—
SIR:—Yours of the 16" ult." addressed to the Postmaster at Milledgeville' and informing that you have sustained certain losses by mail, has been transmitted to this Department

If you will inform the Department of the precise day on which each of your missing letters was mailed and also at what place the one which contained your “pay certificate” was mailed, an investigation will be instituted, with a view to trace the cause of loss”
A. K.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>May 5th 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXCELLENCY R. R. REID Governor of Florida Tallahassee. Florida.
SIR, By direction of the President of the United States, I have the honor to request that, on the requisition of Brigadier General Armistead, commanding the forces in Florida,” you will call into the service of the United States, a militia force which, together with such portion of that now in the service, both of the United States, and of the Territory as may wish to continue in service, will not exceed one thousand men with a due proportion of Officers, and the Officer highest in rank to be Colonel. General Armistead has been instructed to call upon your Excellency for this force," and to cause the force in the service of the territory to be mustered as having been in the service of the United States from the time they were called out by the authority of the territory. He has also been told that, as the object of the force now called for, is to protect the settlements, he must, in stationingit, be governed by the views of the Officer of the rank of Colonel, selected by you to command it.”
<dochead>JRP
THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE COMMANDING GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Misc. Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>[May 5, 1840]</place-time>
MEMO FOR MAJOR GENERAL MACOMB
Orders will be given to General Armistead to apply to the Governor of Florida for a Militia force of one thousand men, five hundred to

be mounted, and five hundred foot, so that the whole militia force in the territory shall not exceed one thousand men with a due proportion of Officers and the senior Officer not to be above the rank of Colonel.
As the principal object of these troops is the protection of the settlements, General Armistead in stationing them will be governed by the Colonel who will be selected by the Governor to command them.
In mustering this force into the service, General Armistead will instruct the mustering Officer to include in the muster, the Militia now in the service of the territory from the date they entered it, and to muster out of service such of them as may wish to retire."
WAR DEPARTMENT May 5" 1840
<dochead>JRP
SECRETARY MCCANTS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Judges, Marshals, Attys.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Fla May 6th 1840</place-time>
HON. LEVI WOODBURY
SIR. After some delay which I hope you will excuse, I am now ready to answer the enquiry which you propose in your letter of the
[blank]" To premise my salary is largely insufficient for the support of my family and I am therefore under the necessity of continuing my practice at the bar—To Warrant me in withdrawing the requisite time and attention from my professional business, which, if any, must suffer, I should desire a compensation in the discharge of the proposed function—I should have considered this compensation as a matter of course under such an appointment if I had not been informed to the contrary.—I understand that in such cases the compensation is the result of arrangement between the parties—Be pleased to inform me on this point—I trust you will appreciate the position I take under this explanation"—
I am, Sir, very respectfully Your Obt. Sevt.
J. M°CANTS Secretary of Florida
[Addressed] Hon Levi Woodbury Secretary of Treasury Washington City DC [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo May 8 1840 Free
[Endorsed] Tallahassee F* Feb 6/40 J. M'Cants Secy of F* resp"
his duties & salary:M: 541 Lovejoy file

</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS]</source>
<place-time>EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT 7" May 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In obedience to the Resolution of the Senate of the 30th December 1839* I have the honor to enclose certain other information consisting of
1. Report of the Commissioners appointed to examine the Branches of the S.L. & T. Insurance Company at Apalachicola and S" Joseph.
2. Report of the Bank Committee of the House of Representatives
3. Reports of the Bank [S.L. & T. Insurance Company] of 1837–
1839—and 1840
4. Report of the Commissioners appointed to examine the Union Bank Agency at S" Joseph.
5. Report of the Commissioners appointed to examine the Lake Wimico & S" Joseph Canal and Rail Road Company."
I have still other information which will speedily be communicated.
I am—Sir—Very respectfully Yº Ob" S"
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
HON: J. FORSYTH Secretary of State U.S.
[Endorsed] Rec" 16 May Mr Dickins Enclosures sent to the Senate by the President 18 May.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO ROBERT M.T. HUNTER</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Repts. to Cong. Bk. 511]</source>
<place-time>May 8* 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. R. M. T. HUNTER Speaker of the House of Rep"
SIR, The accompanying report of the Chief Engineer and the documents annexed to it, are respectfully transmitted in reply to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 6" instant,”
calling for a copy “of the charge preferred against F.L. Dancy for alleged frauds against the United States as Special Superintendent of the Sea Wall at S*Augustine, Florida, together with all the correspondence and evidence on said charges, the reports of Captain Mansfield and Lieutenant Benham, in relation thereto; and also all other information on that subject in the possession of the War Department.””
- JRP

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TOWALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>May 13th 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BVT BRIG GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Commanding Army of the South. S." Augustine, Florida.
SIR, The determination of the department, lately signified to you, to take into the service of the Government one thousand militia to aid in the defence of Florida:” and the late attacks made upon our scouting parties by large bodies of Indians, showing that they are concentrating their forces, render it advisable to change, in some measure, the plan of defence adopted by General Taylor previous to his departure from Florida.
The posts which ought to be occupied by the Regular forces are Pilatka; Two forts east of the St Johns, between Pilatka and Fort Russell, Fort King, Wheelock, Micanopy, Walkahoote, Wacasscissa, one between Wacassassa and Fort Fanning and Fort Fanning. The stations at Cedar Keys, at Weedmans, Smyrna, Forts Pierce and Lauderdale, Key Biscayne and Tampa may be kept up likewise by the Regulars—the remainder will be occupied by the Militia. It will be better to establish three posts from Dunn's lake to Peliciers creekone at Rowl's town—one at the Creek and one between them which will allow Fort Hanson and Fort Peyton to be abandoned. The movements here recommended must be made gradually, and discreetly, so as to expose the settlements as little as possible, and in conjunction with the Officer commanding the Militia force under you, you will station that force so as to afford protection to that portion of the Country from which the regulars will be withdrawn.
It is the intention of the department to make Picolata a recruiting station and place of rendezvous for one of the battalions in the event of the passage of the bill now before Congress to raise an additional force for Florida.
You are requested to give positive instructions to the Officer who is charged with mustering the Militia into the service of the United States to receive none but able bodied men—The department has been informed that very young boys have been mustered into the service, a practice which must be discountenanced. The protection of Florida, both West of the Suwannee and North of the line of posts you are directed to establish, being entrusted to the Florida Militia, it is important that those companies should all be composed of men capable of doing military duty."

You are requested to communicate to the Department as speedily as possible every event of interest that occurs in Florida. Information of every description which concerns the Army, is generally first received at the department of War through the medium of the Newspapers instead of being communicated direct from head quarters.
In mentioning the posts to be occupied, I intended chiefly to designate the line, leaving it to you to exercise your discretion in the selection of the sites, so as to occupy stations combining, as far as may be practicable, good water, Military advantages and healthfulness."
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF LEIGH READ AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[May 22, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN WAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of LEIGH READ I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Middle district of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said LEIGH READ for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty Second Day of May in the Year of our Lord one

thousand eight hundred and forty and of the Independence of the United States of America the 64*—
By the President, [Blank]* Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOSEPH B. BROWNE AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (SOUTHERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals' Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[May 25, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of JOSEPH B. BROWNE I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,”
Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Southern district of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said JOSEPH B.
BROWNE for the term of four years, from the 8" day of June next unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty fifth Day of May in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty and of the Independence of the United States of America the 64*
M WAN BUREN
By the President, [Blank] Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION OF THE TERRITORIAL SENATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred May 25, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Regarding any law of Congress dividing the Territory of Florida without the consent of the majority of our whole people as unjust to us, unconstitutional and invalid We hereby respectfully, but solemnly and earnestly Protest against the passage of any such law, militating against those rights secured to us by the Treaty with Spain, and the laws of the land, and Be it resolved by the Senate of the Territory of Florida that our Deligate in Congress be instructed to oppose the passage of any law dividing our Territory, by separating East and South Florida from Middle and West Florida and making them two Territories Be it further resolved, That Copies of this Protest and Resolution, after due authentication, be forwarded to the Honorable Charles Downing our Deligate in Congress, the President of the Senate of the United States, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to be by them laid before the respective bodies over which they preside.”
GEORGE S. HAWKINS.
President of the Senate Adopted by the Senate of Florida attest J S Robinson SecY Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Remonstrance from the Senate of Territory of Florida against the division of that Territory—(against division of Territory) May 25 1840 Ref" to the Committee on the Territories Speaker 39 Territories
</docbody>
<dochead>T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Report Book, 2]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT office Indian affairs May 28, 1840</place-time>
<docbody>HON. J.R. POINSETT Secretary of War SIR, A letter of the Hon L. Banks of the House of Representatives, under date 22° inst,” enclosing papers in regard of the claim of Major W" M. Graham, for services rendered as acting Indian Agent in Florida, and expenses incurred therein, from Oct. 1832 to Oct. 1834, has been referred by you to this office.

Mr B. on behalf of the Committee on claims, desires to know if the existing laws do not authorize the payment of the claim, and, if not, whether a special act of Congress will be necessary for his relief? I am of opinion that the laws, as they are, do not authorize the adjustment of this claim. Certain Agencies are established and Agents appointed, who are paid by appropriations regularly made by Congress—Of the Seminoles Major John Phagan was the Agent when this claim arose—and of this class of officers there could be but one title in commission or under pay as such at the same time. It follows that if congress think Major Graham entitled to relief, a special act will be necessary to give it.
Altho’ not specificaly asked for, I think it my duty to mention that by the act of 30 June 1834,” which organized the Indian Department, (Sec. 13.) military officers, who are in the service of this office, shall perform the duties required of them, “without any other compensation than their actual traveling expenses.” Since that time then, no allowance can be claimed, (except as mentioned,) for services.
The case of Capt. Page referred to by Major Graham in his letter of
4 Nov. 1837” to you I have inquired into. It appears that Capt. P. was allowed for his services as sub agent from 1. July 1827 to 31.
December 1828, at the rate of $500, per annum, which was paid out of an appropriation made by an act of Congress, passed on 27. January
1831, “for closing certain accounts and making appropriations for arrearages in the Indian Department.”.” There is no fund out of which payment of the present claim could be made at the disposal of the Department.
From all I can learn Major Graham rendered useful services, and expended his own funds, and I regard his claim as an equitable one, entitled to favorable consideration.
Very respectfully &c T.H.C.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN J. ABERT TO JOHN MACKAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 4]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topogri Engrs. WASHINGTON, May 29th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>CAPT. J. MACKAY C. T. E. Savannah G*
SIR, There is a law of July 1838, which appropriates the sum of
$10,000" for “opening and constructing a road from Tallahassee to Iola on the Appalachicola.”” The duty of attending to this road

had been placed with others under Capt. Guion of the Corps. But the indian disturbances in that quarter and the ill health of Capt Guion have prevented him from attending to it. He is now on leave of absence. As it is extremely desirable that this road should be opened as soon as practicable, I have to direct that you will repair to Tallahassee & put the same under contract, or as much of it as the unexpended balance of the appropriation will cover. This balance is of $9500.00, but it would not be proper that the contract should cover more than $9000.00, as the $500.00 may be wanted for unforeseen contingencies.
Should an escort be necessary to any duty you may have to perform, you can probably obtain it from the troops near Tallahassee, should you fail in this, however, and should you be well satisfied that the duties you may have to perform in reference to the road, cannot well be made without an escort, you will delay operations, return to Savannah and report the result."
Respectfully &c Signed: J.J. ABERT, C. T. E.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WADDY THOMPSON, JR.</dochead>
<source>[NA: HF, Orig. Repts., WD, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT May 30th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to transmit to you for the information of the Committee on Military Affairs, two letters received this morning from Florida. They represent a state of things requiring the adoption of the most active and vigorous measures to protect that territory from the renewed and repeated attacks of the Indians, who appear to have again concentrated their forces. The Department of War has been for some time past anxiously looking to Congress for its action upon the bill introduced into the House of Representatives by the Committee this session,” and I feel justified by the exigency of the case, once more earnestly to solicit your attention to it and ask the cooperation of the Committee to procure an early decision of Congress upon it in order that the Department may organize without further delay the force that
30 See Abert to Mackay, June 16, 1840 (NA,WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 4), acknowledging Mackay's letter of June 4 (not found), and enclosing J.D.
Hart's contract for construction of the Jacksonville-Newnansville road.

bill would place at its disposition, or resort to other less efficient measures at its disposal.”
Very respectfully Yr Mo Ob" Serv J. R. POINSETT
HON. W. THOMPSON Jr Chm. Com. Mily Affrs House of Rep"
[Endorsed] With H.R. N° 9 Florida–Indian warfare in. Letter from Sec. of War No 1. June 7, 1840
[Enclosure:ALS]
Jacob Brown to the Paymaster General Steamboat Gen'l Clinch off Jacksonville, ST JOHNS RIVER May 24, 1840–
GENERAL, I wrote to you on the 22" inst.” informing you of our disasters near Ft Micanopy, and I now have more to relate.
Yesterday we received notice, that Ft Crum had been taken by the Indians, and all the occupants, save one, killed, also, that two express riders had been killed between Forts No 11 & 12. Fort Crum lies about six miles from Ft Micanopy, & has of late been occupied by an association of citizens, having plantations in that vicinity. The number killed is not reported—For the truth of the above we have only the word of the express rider from No 11, but the late occurences in that vicinity & other circumstances give strength to his report.
To day we are informed, & of this there is no doubt, that yesterday in the afternoon, two persons coming from St Augustine were killed &
their wagons & horses destroyed, Also, that of a party proceeding from Picolata to St Augustine, one was killed & two are missing—This last party was a company of actors, who have been of late performing at Ft Heileman—Gen'l Armistead is now in the field with about a thousand men, and we look anxiously for news from his command”—
With great respect Yr Obdt Servt JAC. BROWN Add’l Paymr BRIG GEN N. TowsoN Paym Genl U.S. Army Washington
[Addressed] Brigr Gen'l N. Towson Paym'r Gen’l U.S. Army Washington [Postmarked] Savannah Geo May 26 Free Service
[Endorsed] On board Steam Boat Genl. Clinch of Jacksonville Fla May 24th 1840 Jacob Brown Reports the capture by Indians of Fort Crum &c May 30th 1840

MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY COURT OFFICIALS
(EASTERN DISTRICT)
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.: DS]</source>
<place-time>[June 10, 1840]</place-time>
To the Honorable—The Senate & House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled The undersigned would respectfully suggest that by means of the present Indian War in Florida & the unsettled state of the Country Consequent thereon it is very difficult & dangerous & sometimes impossible to hold Courts in the interior Counties of the District of East Florida, whereby the due administration of the Laws is much impeded, and the trial for, or punishment of Crimes is extremely uncertain & tardy—Therefore to remedy in some measure this evil your memorialists would recommend that a law may be passed providing that during the continuance of the present war persons who are or hereafter may be arrested or charged with felonies or crime committed within the District of East Florida may be indicted arraigned &
tried in the County of St Johns in said District at any term of the Superior Court therein to be holden or at any other regular term of said Court duly holden in any county in said District—
And your petitioners pray that such a Law may be passed or some other Law authorising the trial of offenders in any county of said District—and that any Law of the Territorial Legislature of Florida, or ordinance or Decree repugnant thereto be annulled—
Dated St Augustine June 10 1840 -
I. H. BRONSON Judge of the Eastern Dist Florida ..
THO DOUGLAS, U. S. Atty -
E B GOULD Judge County Court St. Johns County JOS: S. SANCHEZ U.S. Marshal E.D.F.
[Endorsed] Florida—trial of criminals Petition of Hon. J. H. Bronson & E. B. Gould Praying that during the Continuance of the war in Florida that persons arrested for Crimes committed in the interior counties of East Florida may be indicted and tried in the County of St Johns in said District. Dec. 31 1840 Ref" to the Committee on the Territories* Feb. 12 1841 Report vs. to lie & print * Downing 14.
Territories

</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO RICHARD H. LONG</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book K–1]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT June 16th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>RICHARD H. LONG Esq. Marianna Fl. T.
SIR. The case of loss by mail heretofore reported by you & in relation to which some further information is given in yours of the
7th inst.” will be referred to Arthur Nelson an agent &c It is proper, however, to apprize you that a want of knowledge of the precise day on which your missing letter was mailed will render it difficult if not impossible for the agent to ascertain any thing definite or useful respecting the cause of loss”
J.M.N.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA: TD, ST Lets. from Individuals, Land Offices: LS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. June 20th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. Your letter of the 25th. Ult:” respecting private land claims has been received, in that letter you request me to “report the number of private Land claims now remaining undecided in the courts of Florida, and the probable period when it is expected they will be determined.”
I am also requested to “state how much of my time has been devoted within the last two years, in attending to the interests of the U.S. in relation to those claims and what attention will be required the present year.”
In reply I have the honour to state that the number of private Land claims now remaining undecided in this District (and I am not aware that there are any elsewhere in Florida) is thirty, embracing in the aggregate 987,635 acres of land and that it is expected that most of them will be submitted to the Court for its final action at the ensuing term thereof in July next, when I doubt not but a large portion of them will be determined; so far as they can be determined in this Court: owing to the death of Complainants occurring in vacation, and the consequent want of parties, which in most instances is unknown to me until the cases are called up in Court, it generally happens that some cases have to be continued for this cause at every Term, our July Term in 1841 therefore is as soon as it can reasonably

be expected that the whole of them will be determined but I shall spare no pains or exertions which may be necessary to insure the determination of as many of them as possible at the approaching Term—
As to the next question “how much of my time within the last two years has been devoted to the interests of the U.S. in relation to these claims” it is impossible for me to answer as I “have taken no note of time” these cases never did occupy much of the time of either the Court or counsel during Term, except in the trial of the claim of Arredondo & Son to what is familiarly called the Alachua Grant, in this case which was the first that was tried, most of the testimony was taken in open court, but the practice was found exceedingly inconvenient and was therefore virtually abandoned. Since the trial of that cause nearly all the testimony has been taken in vacation, the proceedings are all made up and interlocutory orders are taken in vacation and upon all important questions either of law or fact, the Counsel have been in the habit of submitting very full briefs or written arguments these are also prepared by the counsel and received and considered by the Judge in vacation.
There are but few, in any, of these cases which do not contain some point or question that may have an important bearing upon similar cases arising upon Spanish, French or British Grants in those portions of our Country acquired by the Cession of Louisiana &
Florida consequently I have deemed them important beyond their own respective intrinsic merits and have consequently devoted most earnestly a large portion of my time to the various questions arising in them ever since I have had them in charge.
At almost every Session of The Supreme Court, for several years past and especially at the last Term, questions have been decided having such a bearing upon these cases as to make a reexamination of them necessary to see how far the principles settled applied to them, and what further preparation was requisite to meet the questions thus newly but finally settled.
In reply to the last question what attention will be required the present year.—
I have to observe that it is partly answered already, I shall as before stated endeavour the ensuing Term to submit as many of them as possible to the Court for its final action, but I have to remark that when they shall have been argued & submitted the Duties of the District Attorney in regard to them are not yet done,—by the Act of Congress under which these claims are adjudicated, it is provided “That it shall be the duty of the attorney of the United States for the District in which the suits authorised by this act shall be instituted, in any case where the decision is against the United

States, to make out and transmit to the Attorney General of the United States, a statement containing the facts of the case and the point of law on which the same were decided; and that it shall be the duty of the Attorney General in all cases where the claim exceeds one league square, and in all other cases if he shall in such latter cases think the decision of the District Judge erroneous, to direct an appeal to be made to the Supreme Court of the United States—see act of 234 May 1828" sec 9 chap: 364–: it will be observed that by this provision an appeal must be made in all cases where the claim exceeds one league square & the decision is against The United States and may be directed in all other cases:—Seventeen of these claims exceed one league square-
The Complainants too have a right of appealing when the decision is against them and by the instruction of the Solicitor of the Treasury contained in his circular of the 1* May 1839," The District Attorney is required “whenever an appeal is taken to report the same to him, and to cause a transcript of the record certified by the Clerk to be transmitted to his office together with a note of the points made and authorities referred to in the Court below.
The Fiat for an appeal in these cases is sent down by the Attorney General to the District Attorney and it is the duty of the latter to take the appeal, cause a citation to be issued see that it is duly served and in all cases to cause a transcript of the record to be made and certified by the Clerk & transmitted to the office of the Solicitor of the Treasury, and when The United States appeal another copy of the record is to be made out and sent up to the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court; it is the duty of the District Attorney to examine the records and see that they are made out correctly and especially whether they contain all the evidence which was adduced in the case on behalf of the United States. When a case has been decided in the Supreme Court a mandate comes down to this Court and it frequently happens that the case has been reversed in whole or in part and it is also the duty of the District Attorney to see that the mandate is duly entered and to take such proceedings thereon as the interest of the United States may require in the premises.
And in addition to all this the Attorney General under date of the

those heretofore sent I found of much service at the late trials of the cases here”—
I bring these matters to your notice in order that you may be enabled to see and judge for yourself what attention will be required in relation to these claims the present year,” and Have the honor to be Sir, with great Respect Your Obt Serv"
THO DOUGLAS
HON LEVI WoODBURY | Secretary of the Treasury City of Washington D.C. -
[Endorsed] Consult with Atty. Gen & report whether this office can be discontinued W D3. July 6 Rodman *
</docbody>
<dochead>VINTON BUTLER TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:ALS]</source>
<place-time>PENSACOLA 21* June 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 11" inst. in which you inform me of my dismissal from office of Attorney of the United States for the Middle District of Florida."
By your communication I am also to understand that the President has been induced to remove me by “information recently received”
My surprize is indescribable. My conscience acquits me of any moral delinquency antecedent or subsequent to my appointment My devotion to the principles of the present Administration and my desire for their renewed triumph in the approaching crisis, renders this assault upon my feelings and reputation the more agonizing My unbounded confidence in the magnanimity and justice of the President, assure me that nothing but an inflexible sense of duty has influenced him in taking this step towards me.
I will only ask an opportunity (if such a right is not by policy denied me) to vindicate myself against any charge or charges which may have been preferred. I would much desire to know what they are and by whom made, for conscious rectitude of principle and action encourages me to assure the President that I can satisfy him that there is no just cause for my dismissal.

My appointment was for the District of West Florida and not for the “Middle District” as mentioned in your letter.
I have the honor to be Your most respectful Obt Srvt V. BUTLER
To/ HON. JoHN FORSYTH Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] To Hon John Forsyth Secretary of State Washington City D C. [Postmarked] Pensacola Flor. Jun 21 Free
[Endorsed] U.S. Dist: Attorney West Florida W. Butler asks for Charges against him July 2. 1840. The P. will receive Mr Bacourt at 2 oclock tomorrow F.—Rec" 2 July Mr Hodgson THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>June 23d 1840.</place-time>
BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Fort King via Gareys Ferry Florida.
SIR, On the 5" ultimo you were directed by the Commanding General of the Army," under authority of this department, to apply to the Governor of Florida for a Militia force of one Thousand men;
Five hundred mounted and Five hundred foot, with a due proportion of Officers, the Senior of whom not to be above the rank of Colonel.
I now request that you will direct them, as well as the additional force of Five hundred mounted men authorized by my letter of the
16" Instant," with their usual complement of Field Officers, to be received into the service.* -
JRP.

</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VII]</source>
<place-time>June 29, 1840</place-time>
<docbody>ROB" BUTLER, Esq. S. G. Tallahassee Florida Ter:
SIR I herewith enclose a copy, marked A, of Dr Henry Perrine's letter of the 17" inst" asking the attention of this Office to the provisions contained in the 1" & 2" Sections (Copy enclosed marked B)
of the Act entitled “An Act to encourage the introduction and promote the cultivation of tropical plants in the United States” Approved July 7, 1838,” and requesting that instructions may be issued to you for the Survey of the six miles square selected by him which he describes as lying “along the South coast of the Peninsula, Eastward of Cape Sable, or of the projecting land called Punta Tancha on Spanish Charts, and North ward of the Sandy Islands of which one is called Cayo Axi on several Charts.”
I have to request that you will at your earliest convenience have the Survey of the township in question made under the direction of Dr Perrine as provided in the 1" & 2" Sections of the Act. You will perceive that by the 1* Section, none but public lands can be taken, and by the 2" that the location must not embrace any land having sufficient quantities of naval timber to be reserved to the United States, nor any sites for Maratime ports or Cities, and you will therefore be particular in your instructions to the Deputy whom you may employ to require him not to include such lands in the Survey.
You will of course confer with D* Perrine on the subject of the Survey, whose letter is dated at Indian Key Florida Territory, where it is presumed your communications will reach him, and should you experience any difficulty in procuring a Deputy to undertake the service it may perhaps be in his power to obviate it.”
I am Sir Very Resp? Your Ob" Serv"
- JA"WHITCOMB Comm"
r ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla. :ALS)</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE July 1” 1840.</place-time>
SIR, Herewith accompanied you will receive 17 Town plats as p"
schedule, giving a connection of the public lands with the respective claims of Panton Leslie & C° and John Forbes & C° and having

thereon the traverse of said Boundary—The entire survey has been placed upon the general plan of this office the Register this day furnished with copies of the maps &" aforesaid and the other maps of this office of same tenor have been filed with Cancelled written in their face—
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Y" M* Ob" St ROBERT BUTLER Surv' General JAMES WHITCOMB Esq Comm G.L. Office
[Endorsed] S.G.O Tallahassee 1 July 1840 R. Butler S.G. Transmits 17 Towns” plats, giving a connection of the pub. lands with the respective Claims of Panton Leslie & C° & Jn” Forbes & Co. having thereon the traverse of the boundary—States that the entire Survey has been placed upon the General plan of his office, & the Reg' furnished with copies of the maps &c.—and the other maps of his office of same tenor have been filed with Cancelled written on their face—
Ackg" July 14th 1840.” W.T.S. Quantities Ent" Index exam" &”
H.G. ONeal
[Enclosure]
Schedule of Townships Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE
June 30th 1840
Schedule of 17 Township Plats; Bordering on Forbes Claim, returned to this office on 17* Feby 1840 by Robert B. Ker Deputy Surveyor.
N & W S & W
Range, Township Range, Township
2 1 1 1
3 1 1 2
3 2 2 1
4 2 10 9 : : S & E
6 1 Range, Townp
6 2 1 2
7 1 2 2
7 2
8 2 Making in all 17 Plats.
A A NUNES Draftsman ROBERT BUTLER Survr General

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>July 6th 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIG GEN' W. K. ARMISTEAD Commanding Army of Florida Fort King Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 18" ultimo detailing the operations of Lieutenant Asheton, has been received.”
Your views with regard to the ultimate destination of the Indians, are approved—There can be no permanent arrangement made with them upon any other basis than their removal out of the Territory of Florida. The department has no funds at its disposal for the purpose of bribing the Chiefs: but any agreement you may find it necessary to make with them will be sanctioned by the Government upon their consenting to emigrate. The amount due them may then be paid out of the fund appropriated for the removal of the Seminoles to the West.*
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES D. WESTCOTT, JR., TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Individuals, Land Office:ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. July 7. 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR, I have been here some thirty days on professional business, and have met Judge Bronson; who I am gratified to find, pleases all parties here, and especially the friends of the administration.
Since I have been here, I have been informed that the office of Dist Atty for the Southern Dist of Florida, has been resigned by M. Walker;
&, that Tho" Buckingham Smith Esq, a democratic lawyer of this City, w" take it if offered to him. He is an excellent young man, possesses fine talents & attainments, and has lived in this city from his youth. He is a Spanish Scholar, & a good lawyer. I hope he will be gratified with the offer of the office if not yet conferred. He will accept it.
I was surprised to notice the removal of M. Butler in West Florida.
I do not know him nor how he got the appt, nor the cause of his removal about which there is considerable curiosity there.
If Florida is admitted her 3 votes will be given to the Democratic Candidate by a vote of 3 to 1. The cause is daily strenghening, and

since that corrupt & corrupting rag-shop the Southern Life & Co suspended a second & last time, a few weeks since, I flatter myself, and the country, in the belief that these monsters are now in their death struggle. Even some of those who have heretofore supported them, so regard them, and as when a whale is in its flurry at the cry of
“starn all” (vide Cooper) they are backing out with all possible dispatch.
I will forward, (or have forwarded, as I go home tomorrow) to yr.
Excellency, an address I delivered here on the 4th, at the request of the citizens of this place, "some parts of which I wish you would read.
The offices of post master, and Dist Atty here, should be changed.
Every principle & rule of public policy requires it the office of Law agent, & live oak watcher are useless and worse than useless. They should be abolished. Two numbers of the Democratic paper here speaking of this subject will be sent to your Excellency.
I am Sir Most respectfully Your Exc” obdt sert JAMES D. WESTCOTT Jr.
HIS EXC, M WANBUREN Pres' US.
Downing has written a vituperative letter agst you & Poinsett for the “News” a whig paper here, which I also send.
[Addressed] His Exy M. Van Buren Pres' US. A Washington City ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE July 11" 1840</place-time>
SIR; I have the honor to acknowledge your letter (and enclosures)
under date 29" Ult°" and herewith enclose you a copy of my letter to Dr Perrine on the Subject, which I hope may be satisfactory—
I beg leave to suggest that I be authorized to have surveyed the tongue of land laying before the entrance of S" Andrews Bay, which contain strips in Ranges 14, 15. 16 & 17, West of the Principal Meridian and whereon it may be desirable for the public interest to have reservations made for Military and light house purposes—also a small island in the Bay of S" Josephs the existence of which I have not long since been aware of tho’ containg perhaps not more than 40 acres—
Very respectfully Yr Mo Ob"S"
ROBERT BUTLER Surv'. General JAMES WHITCOMB Esq Comm' General L. Office
[Endorsed] For Comm General L. Office M Steiger R"21 July 1840.
S. G. Office Tallahassee 11" July 1840 R. Butler S.G. Ack" the rec"

FLORIDA TERRITORY 167
of the Comm” letter of 29." Ult” with the enclosures—& transmits herewith a copy of his letter to Doc Perrine upon the subject Suggests that he be authorized to have surveyed the tongue of land lying before the entrance of S" Andrews Bay, contain" Strips of land in Ranges
14, 15, 16 & 17, W of P.M.–Also to have surveyed a small Island in the Bay of S" Josephs Consider this letter in issuing instruc" for new surveys Commr." Instructions of the 13th Aug 1840" obviate the necessity of special instructions. W.T.S.
[Enclosure:CS]
Robert Butler to Henry Perrine Surveyor Gen" Office TALLAHASSEE July 11" 1840
TO Dr HENRY PERRINE
SIR, The Commissioner of the General Land office under date of
29" Ulto has call'd my attention to the fulfillment of the Act of Congress approved July 7" 1838,” in consequence of your communication of 17 June last " (a copy of which is now before me) wherein you have pointed out a location for six miles square or township of land granted by said act and asking for the Survey of the Same under you direction In compliance with my instructions and your wishes I take the earliest moment to advise you that the survey of the contemplated Township embraces in exterior and section lines Seventy two miles which at the compensation allow'd by law amounts at $4 per mile to
$288, the land laws & instructions also require the survey to be made at right angles due North & South & east & West & six miles square.—
The compensation being so small, the distance from hence so great the amt to be surveyed, only a few days employment, that no surveyor could be induced to undertake the Survey without other &
reasonable compensation being guaranteed to him by the claimant—
Such as a p" diam allowance & expenses found I therefore (from the last clause of the Comm” letter) which is “and should you experience any difficulty in procuring a deputy to undertake the service it may perhaps be in his power to obviate it) respectfully, enquire whether you know any person near you who is competent & would undertake the Survey, when instructions could be sent under cover to you with duplicate contracts & an oath of office for the person to execute & his return of plat & field notes received by mail or private conveyance without the necessity of coming here, the oath of office will embrace beyond the usual form—“that the Survey when executed

shall not embrace any land having sufficient quantities of naval timber to be reserved to the United States nor any cites for maratine posts or cities nor embrace any private claims within its boundaries”—I
anticipate your early acknowledgment, & promise you every facility in my power consistent with my official duty."
Very Respectfully Yr M. Obdt Sert ROBERT BUTLER Surv' General
[Endorsed] Copy to Dr Perrine For Comm Gen L. Office THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO LEIGH READ
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>July 14" 1840.</place-time>
GENERAL LEIGH READ of the Florida Militia Washington City.
SIR, The Governor of Florida has been authorised and called upon to furnish fifteen hundred Militia"—One thousand to be mounted, and five hundred to serve on foot—to form together a Brigade of which you will take the command.
The object of raising this force is to afford protection to the settlements in Florida, which it is believed can only be effected by driving from thence the Indians now within the portion of territory assigned to your command, and preventing their return to it when pressed upon by the Regular forces now operating in East Florida.
Those troops occupy a line of posts extending from the Atlantic South of S" Augustine including two stations East of the St John's River, Pilatka, Wheelock, Micanopy, Walkahoote, Wacassissa and a fort between the last station and Fort Fanning and Cedar Keys.
These stations are mentioned, in order to designate the line beyond which your command will not extend—It is the intention of the department to constitute Picolata a recruiting station, and both that post and S*Augustine may be required for the occupation of the Regular forces—
The operations of the Militia hereby confided to your command will be confined to the North of, and within the line herein designated, and it is expected that the force at your disposal, and the knowledge the Officers and men are supposed to possess of the Country and of the haunts of the enemy, will enable you to afford complete protec-

tion to the settlements, and finally to capture or destroy the merciless Indians who have so long ravaged that portion of Florida. The department will not attempt to restrict your operations by minute instructions, but the most unceasing vigilance, and the most active exertions to protect the plantations and homesteads of the Floridians, and to harass and destroy the enemy, are enjoined on you.
No system of defence in the opinion of the department can succeed but one of incessant scout, attack and pursuit.
Those people who have been driven from their homes are to be encouraged to return to their plantations, and to reestablish themselves within them, and every facility and protection is to be afforded them for that purpose. Every such settlement should be provided with a blockhouse to which the family may retire in case of danger, and every encouragement is to be given to the settlers to raise supplies of provisions for themselves and for the use of the troops.
Your command will be supplied with Officers of the regular Staff for the administrative service of the troops, a measure deemed necessary to prevent the difficulties which have heretofore been produced in the settlement of accounts from the inexperience of Militia Quarter Masters.”
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 14th July 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I very much regret that the enclosed, have not been sent to you at an earlier period—but I waited for other information respecting other Banks—which I have not as yet, been able to obtain.
I shall probably before the next Session of Congress communicate with you again, in relation to the Banks of this Territory—but the Report required to be made under the Resolution of the Senate may,"
for the present, be considered as closed.
I am, Sir, Very respectfully Y” ob S'
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
HON. J. FORSYTH Secy of State
[Endorsed] Rec" 29th July Mr Dickens Enclosure No. 1 * sent to the Senate by the President 5 Jan”

[Enclosure: ALS]
T. S. Brown to Governor Reid
(Private)(2) [May 6, 1840]
TO HIS EXCELLENCY ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida Having been engaged in the examination of the affairs of the Union Bank of Florida, the Bank of Pensacola and the Branch and Agency of the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Company at Apalachicola and at St Joseph where the business of that company has been chiefly conducted and its office in Tallahassee, I make to your Excellency for the better understanding of the reports of the Committee of the House of Representatives and the Commissioners appointed by yourself the present communication which in addition to a general review of the aforesaid reports and suggestions thereupon contains matters based upon my own convictions established on Verbal communications with officers of the institutions during the progress of our investigation—
Upon the Union Bank of Florida the report of the Committee of the House of Representatives of the Legislative Council is so full in Matters of both argument and opinion that little further need be said but I would call the attention of your Excellency to the probable fact that the loans withheld from investigation are in many instances made in large amounts to few individuals upon weak security, a General understanding of the Community is evidence on one part which is fully corroberated by what has been divulged in regard to the distribution of Stock so called based upon the division of Shares—
The Cotton transactions of the Bank during the past season so extravagent in their nature demand an inquiry to establish the actual Amount of Capital sacrificed—
I am far from any party feeling in this Matter and far from condesending the Managers of the Institution worse than other Men similarly circumstanced; on the contrary with full reflection I consider them above the low petty and chicanery which has disgraced so many Banking Corporations but at the same they were (many of them)
Gentlemen led to extravagant and Aristocratic ideas whose reduced Means ill comported with their former habits and who when once involved in the new, and I may say Super-artificial credit system introduced by the Sale abroad of State Security mistook the Stream for the fountain and Wasted the Waters with unheedfull prodigality An estimate of the losses already sustained by the Bank is without further investigation simply speaking on supposition but it appears to me that a proper examination would show a deficiency of full five hundred thousand dollars already accrued by bad securities and expensive negociations and if this be the fact every struggle of the

Bank to mantain or improve its credit must tend to a rapid diminution of the Capital for the raising of which the bonds were sold—
In regard to any remedial suggestions If I supposed a Territorial act of incorporation of any Walidity whatever or that the pledge of faith upon which the Bonds were issued at all binding on the people of Florida, I would were the Legislature in Session not hesitate to recommend that the affairs of the Union Bank should be placed in liquidation and perhaps justice might demand in as much as innocent parties abroad may have been deceived by the use made of the name of the Territory that measures should be devised to prevent any further depreciation of the Security which the Bond holders hold in the Bank—
A regard also to the the rights of their constituents might induce the Legislative Council to provide that the parties so few in Number now controlling the Bank whose interest in paying both principal and interest due by them must always lead to depreciating the Currency to the lowest possible rate should no longer possess the power which under the Law as it now stands is paramount to the will of the community whatever be their numbers their Wealth or their character—
In making these suggestions I would derogate nothing from the honest and honorable intentions of the Directors or Controllers of the Union Bank but the public mind is not yet relieved from the fallacies of the Hamiltonian School which teach that “Money can be made plenty” or that men can become suddenly rich not by wealth honestly inherited from industrious fathers or labouriously acquired by themselves but by faithfull schemes and the eccentric Action of Legislative bodies which schemes however masked by words terminate in one invariable design—the creation into bodies polotic of aristocratic idlers who with corporate priviledges levy an onerous tax upon the frugal sober minded and industrious to be expanded wholly in luxury and vain parade by these idlers who produce nothing thereby exposing our American principal of “equal rights” to bitter Sarcasm and introducing distructions of “poor” and “rich” (without regard to talent usefulness or integrity) alike destructive to republican institutions and the great charter of Heaven that accompanied our forefathers to this Continent While these Hamiltonian doctrines are unblushingly promulgated by the entire Whig press and entire Whig influence of the United States it is not to be admitted that the controllers who are also the
“indebted” of the Union Bank whatever may be their high character or Moral worth as amiable Citizens can be entirely free from the influence of human fallacies and Weakness—The Maintainance of their present ascendency the pecuniary aid in being perhaps of many

of their families depends upon a constant and continued depreciation of the Currency in Florida, Every dollar of debt or interest due by them to the Bank is now paid with Sixty five cents and could the paper money be further depreciated by getting a greater quantity into circulation the dollars would be paid with fifty Cents or twenty five cents—
Whatever may be said of the “Scarcity of Money” that the outcry is unworthy of being termed either contemptable ridiculous or untrue is proved by the fact that the only currency of Middle Florida (Bills of the Union Bank) is so redundant that it is depreciated at least
35 p” Cent below the only medium of Currency recognized by the Constitution of the United States and 25 p" Cent below the rates of Specie paying Banks in the Neighbouring States, Nor have the public to thank the Bank that the currency is no worse for it attempted to establish an Agency at Apalachicola for the purchase of Cotton which fortunately did not succeed. Could this intended Agency have forced two hundred thousand dollars into circulation by that process instead of being at 25 p Cent discount Union Bank bills would be this day at 50 p Cent discount in Tallahassee— By its own statement the Bank had outstanding Bills in circulation on the 1" April Amounting to $558,000 of which $130,000 was in the hands of the Agency at S" Joseph and the Agencys of the Southern Life Insurance & Trust Co" and the Bank of Pensacola, the remaining
$400,000 (for I know not where else it can be since it is useless abroad)
must be in the pockets of the people between Washington County and the Sawannee, This circulation so far from being unequal to the Wants is extravagantly redundant for the population of the district—
I do not say that every Man has “enough” for Bank Bills like Bank favors may be unequally distributed but if every Man has not
“enough” it must be because some have got “too Much”—With these opinions however unwillingly I would shock the Sentiveness of a very limited number of individuals, I cannot admit the right of the controllers of the Union Bank to contract or expand the currency at their own Caprice from this time till the year 1868 (when the last bonds become due) at the expense of the rights the prosperity the tranquility and the character of the whole people of Florida and therefore I must recommend equally for the benifit of the Stockholders bond holders and the public that speedy means be devised to secure to the Country every benifit it may have derived from the establishment of the Bank and secure all parties against further loss and evil consequences which can be accomplished alone by the appointment of a Commission of liquidation or of permanent Inspectors and an entire Change in the Direction of the Bank—

Untill the arrival of M. Gregory at Pensacola the Charter of the Bank established there which then contained more than the ordinary good features of Similar Acts was inoperative in Creating a Bank but by amendments in which the Legislative Council accommodated provisions precisely to the apparent wishes and resources of that Gentleman the Bank went into operation and had a capital quite sufficient for the wants of that small community was paid up the Bank with regular Management might have been a convenience to trade and by its circulation excluded paper Money of neighbouring states less known and more doubtfull but in 1835 a band of those speculators falsely called Capitilists whose monied influence has been derived from that incarnation of profligacy the Pensylvania Bank of the United States cast their eyes upon Pensacola as a favorable location for land & town lot speculation, a small tract contiguous to and immediately North of the City was purchased and laid out into
10,000 lots duly defined by Streets marked by cutting away the Brush Wood and a lithographic Map, But though Nature had done much for Pensacola she had not prepared employment or subsistence for an immediate augmentation of the 100,000 Souls that would be required to populate this Visionary Metropolis and therfore resort was made to art and Legislation—A Charter was obtained in Alabama to construct a Rail Road from the Florida line across to opposite to Columbus in Georgia and permission from the Legislative Council of Florida to continue it from Alabama to Pensacola–
The Council at the same time in the Spirit of Magnificient Legislation which distinguished the period increased the Capital of the Bank to $2,500,000 the Bank was authorised to subscribe Stock in the Rail road Company and the Territory was pledged to endorse bonds to be sold abroad to enable the Bank to furnish the Means to construct the Work, The town lot association subscribed all or nearly the Stock of the Bank and the Bank subscribed all the Stock of the railroad and to enable those Wealthy disinterested Capitalists of Philadelphia to commence their benevolent designs for the improvement of Florida the Executive endorsed the faith of the Territory upon bonds to the Amount of about half a Million of dollars which were sold to raise the Wind—Upon the former Capital of the Bank of ($200,000) 25 p. Cent had been paid up which Stock was received in the new Subscription and 5 p. Cent called on $2,500,000 of the $69,1155 p" was paid in cash and the remainder being in promissory Notes $69,115 is all the Capital that has ever been up—Nor could it have been deemed necessary by the scheming protegé's of the Pensylvania United States Bank to men accustomed to borrowing Money at from three to twelve Months the New invention of borrowing upon bonds payable a quarter of a

Century hence or the life of a generation was a greater promise of Wealth than all the Mines of Mexico—The bonds were payable at a distant the profits of the rail road were to pay for its construction off hand and the white Sand marked into town lots of 30 feet by 100
were to produce by Sale such countless treasures that really the Company must have been in a dilemma to decide upon a safe investment for their prospective Millions—
The Management of the Rail Road Company appears to have been as Visionary as the ideas of its projectors and its operations commenced on a Scale commensurate with the future granduer of the New City of Pensacola rather the necessities of a New Country when an Artificial road was desireable for interior communication—Head Work instead of hand work was then the prevailing Spirit. Engineers were engaged at enormous Salaries to remain in Town not on the road wild outlays were made for Surveyors Superintendants and other purposes Various Materials were prematurely purchased and the funds became exhausted—Vision like they had vanished almost as soon as they were created—On one side was a debt due the Bank of $592,013 (instalments and advances) on the other 12 Miles of road graded, a Work which might be done for $40,000 Iron to the Value of $25,000 a pile of timber useless and rotting a few Carriages and Mountings and an assortment of noseless picks broken handled shovels and other similar Valuable appendages to an unfinished work to which may be added property to the Amount of $95,000 thrown away upon another rail road—
Not knowing by what authority the Alabama Florida and Georgia Rail road Company could subscribe stock in the Montgomerie rail road I call this amount of property transferred “thrown away” by the former Company because it has dispossessed itself of assets that might have been converted into ready means for paying its liabilities whereas now they are beyond their reach and to judge by Ordinary Railroad profits will produce nothing—Since all is to be recommenced I consider the Alabama Florida and Georgia rail road as defunct to all intent and purposes—The remaining Materials are of less Value than the experience gained but since this experience could have been more cheaply purchased by an examination of reckless borrowing improvident squandering in Neighbouring States I consider this but a small extenuation for Wanton mismanagement at Pensacola The Work itself should be encouraged it is necessary importance for the transportation of the Mails and passengers between the Southwest and North and since Nature has formed the Bay of Pensacola as the natural depot of all armaments for the defence of the Mississippi and coast of the Gulf of Mexico a ready communication from thence to the in-

terior States is indispensible for National defence—But I do not speak of it as a profitable investment and pay little attention to the estimated Amount of freights that have been calculated because Rail road transportation is too expensive for bulky goods—When the idle visions of the day are passed and the property of indebted planters is no longer hurried from their control to meet notes drafts and Bills of Exchange coming daily to Maturity on both sides of the Atlantic the periodical flood of the Chattachoochie and Alabama rivers will furnish natural highways to the Ocean as effective as they are economical for it is to be hoped that the day is not far distant when the produce of the Crop be the Master of it and instead of being Compelled to hurry it away with railroad speed to meet the engagement of City Speculators he may Control its movements until such time as a remunerating price repays his labor—The condition of the Bank of Pensacola is most unenviable. Her paid up Capital I have said is only $69,115 her whole assets or resources estimating personal securities and the rail road debt at their full Value do not probably much exceed $300,000
while her liabilities or debts including the Bonds sold Amount to
$923,238 leaving a deficiency of $600,000 or at all events a complete loss of $500,000 equal to an instalment of Twenty p” Cent on the subscribed Capital and whether the subscribers can or will pay such an instalment is the only question upon which to establish the Banks Solvency—Upon the 8781 shares held in Florida I doubt if much would be paid nor have I great faith in the responsiblity of those paper Money credit Capitalists Messrs Jandon Robinson Biddle and others of the Pensacola association but upon them depends the Solvency of the Bank and I think a final issue should at once be tried by the call of an instalment agreeable to the terms of the subscription—
With the Bonds for $500,000 or the annual interest due upon them
(which the Bank has scarce any Means of paying) the public being in no manner bound can have no concern unless the Bank in providing for Bond holders abroad should be forced to sacrifice the interest of Bill holders at home—The Bonds were issued by the Bank for the benefit of a Rail road of which it owned all the Stock and were sold to the Pensacola association which owned both Bank and rail road and the avails were returned through the same hands and expended by or shared among them—The bonds are now supposed to be in England and whether any further gambling has rolled them round in another circle or whether they be pledged to raise funds for other speculations are matters of little moment to the people of Florida-
The eigth Section of the Act for increasing the Capital of the Bank implies that only two thirds of the avails of bonds sold should be invested in the Railroad while the balance should be directed to Banking

purposes—Accordingly we find only $332,840 stated as “instalments”
paid on Railroad Stock and $259,173 is set down as “advances” to the Railroad Company. Inasmuch as the Rail road belongs to the Bank and can pay no debt unless the Bank furnishes the Means this distinction is more remarkable for it adhereance to the Letter than to the Spirit of the Law and as an evidence of the rigid Morality of Philadelphia financiers I understand that the “Financial Agents” in insisting that these “advances” should be made used the argument that as all the Banks had suspended specie payments and could not soon resume there would be no inconvenience in making these heavy irredeemable loans with paper Money, This insinuation coming direct from the Pensylvania Bank of the United States is a happy illustration of the principals of honor and honesty taught by that monstrious institution to its dependents in the younger States and should cease as to rejoice that though supported by all the idle vicious and turbulent both talented and untalented through out the union it has at length broke down beneath the Weight of its own iniquity—
In loaning so heavily to the rail road Company the Bank has I
should suppose not precisely fulfilled the purposes for which it was created. Banks are ordinarily created if we are to believe their projectors to provide for local Wants and relieve local individual distress—
in short to preserve the neighbourhood from ruin dissolution and perdition, The “Notes discounted” to accommodate people about Pensacola hardly exceed $50,000—as to pecuniary relief at this time the inhabitants might as wisely expect it from an Oyster Bank, yet paper circulation among the Community gives the Bank a Capital of
$200,000 those therefore who upon good security have been refused accommodation because the Bank by imprudent loans to the railroad had exhausted all her Capital are perfectly justified in all their animadversions—
At the same time I should do justice to the Board of Directors whom no Board of Directors in the Union have taken less care of themselves and to the cashier one of the most conscienciously honest of Men without intention of mismanagement they were governed by the representations of the Members of the Pensacola associations who were supposed to possess immense means for relieving any embarrasment—they were justified in so believing and should the result prove otherwise blame rests alone on these people for such Wast & formerly conceeded pretensions—
A consolidated statement made up from the reports of the Committee and Commissioners who have examined the different Branches or offices of the Southern Life Insurance and Trust Company would

differ little in anything important from that made by the President of the Institution in January last in as much as the assets are set down in the same uncertain form—
The refusal of Mr Field to submit a list of the notes and Bills discounted was contrary to law because in the 16" Section of the Act ordaining rules and regulations for the Company commonly called the charter it is provided that a most thorough examination may be made by a Master appointed by the Court of appeals and by the amendment of 1838—transferring the same supervisory power to the Governor of the Territory the period alone is fixed for the statement to be made but no change is made in the nature of this investigation and when it is remembered that the great safety of the Stockholder under the New York bank law is in the provision which compels the Bank at all times to submit their affairs to the most searching scrutiny of Inspectors it is reasonable to suppose that the Gentlemen of that state who subscribed the great portion of the Stock whatever might have been their confidence in Lot Clark and George Field looked upon a periodical examination by disinterested persons and a public exhibition of the affairs of the Company as the greatest safeguard for the scarcity of their Capital confided to the sagacity and control of two individuals to be loaned in a distant country among an unknown people—
This is a matter for themselves to settle but the refusal of both the Union Bank and Life & Trust Company to exhibit a list of that portion of their assets called notes and Bills discounted cannot but exite suspicions abroad more detrimental to the interest and credit of the institutions that the fullest publication nor will public curiosity never excited be allayed until the Banks make an exhibition of the loans under these heads more full more detailed and I may add more scandalous than any Committee would have promulgated to the World this Year and every document in the Banks been submitted to their inspection—
Judging from the respectability of the Northern Stockholders of the Life & Trust Company I should suppose the $500,000 formerly paid up was actually paid. Though paid in certificates of deposit these answered to draw drafts upon to pay for imported trinkets and finery and though the public never saw this Capital brought to the Country it may have answered as good a purpose as if imported in Specie and immediately shipped again to pay debts for useless luxuries, but though the abundance of paper Money “equivalent to Specie”
may in 1836 have enabled these Stockholders to pay up their instalments it by no means follows that some of them may not when specu-

lative troubles increased have subsequently withdrawn their investments. This however is only a supposition of my own bassed upon Mr Field's refusal to furnish a list of Notes and Bills discounted in which he may have been governed rather by “good faith” to his New York employers than a desire to mantain “Commercial honor”
with his dependant Customers in Apalachicola and the supposition is further based upon the universal practice of New York and Northern Bankmaking speculators who in past Years have made a regular trade of establishing Banks from Maine to Michigan and from Florida to Canada where they have promptly furnished funds in the outset to put the Machines in motion and afterwards borrowed back quite an equal Amount, such Banks may be very convenient for flooding the Country with “money” but having in reality no means it is hard to expect that they should accommodate the public with loans of Capital—There can be no doubt I think that the affairs of the Bank have been well managed for the Stockholders by Mr Fields and that its means for meeting engagements are abundant but at the same time now that the good project of its original creation is overturned and the true character of Territorial Bonds exposed perhaps an attention to its movements is necessary especially in maintaining a Salutary check upon its Circulation such as that brought to bear in S*Augustine during the Year past—M" Fields it appears wrote without reflection in stating that the Mortgages are taken at half the estimated value of the property else the property was apprised by very liberal Gentlemen For instance Lot Clarks land at the Mouth of the Ocklawaha Mortgaged for $12,500 I have always heard comprises only 2500 acres which was purchased for $1800.—and cannot have since increased in Value. If as I suppose the increase of Stock upon which the replies of M." Fields are so ambiguous, is the Amount loaned on Mortgages it might as properly have been frankly acknowledged if otherwise we should have been plainly informed how when and where this Stock was paid-
The behaviour of the Directors at S*Augustine is an Exhibition of the impotent Malice of very impotent Malicious and very little people, Being merely the puppets of Clark & Field they having in reality nothing to communicate shouts in the Words of Cornings knife grinder have answered “Story God bless you we have none to tell Sir”–
From M* Field and M. Williams we have learned more about the Bank than these directors themselves know nor is their anything wanting to complete the report or which could have been furnished

by the S*Augustine Directors except the names of a few Stockholders in that quarter owning about 400 Shares and these may be easily named . All the discounted paper at both S*Augustine and Jacksonville Amounted in January to but $104,000 nor can these two officers be considered anything but little annoyance Shops intended to give a local consequence to a few individuals and abroad create an impression that the benefit of the Institution are very generally diffused—
The influence of these Banks over local elections is a pervading influence over classes easily distinguished but difficult to fix to individuals—
It is fully known and understood yet nothing is less susceptible of tangible or positive proof Banks arise or their generation know that a Majority of their Customers are more gratified for favors expected than for favors received and that like hounds on a trail they work best when their stomachs are empty and appetites craving, consequently trifling accommodations held in prospective as an inducement command the Services of more partisans than large Sums actually discounted to them—The number of recipients of Bank favor is very small the number of expectants will be the lettelest Baetithed eh the sañe side thetigh especially during the present embarrasments very large and when a Bank throws its influence into one of the Scales in a political contest these expectants will be the loudest mouthed on the same side though they may have never obtained an accommodation and their chance in future is like the chance of drawing a Lottery prize—An examination may sometime show that leading Men have been liberally treated about an election time but they will always be set down as “extensive dealers whose business requires large accommodation”—
The Action of Congress upon our Territorial Corporations is a very simple Action—Simply to disallow every act creating them or amending them from first to last with a proviso that such as are in being shall exercise powers necessary for their management until the end of the next Session of the Legislative Council of the Territory (or of the State Legislature) a few simple Laws then passed would regulate the whole Matter, our law would permit people to build as many Academies as they saw fit to rule them with as many directors as they saw fit and teach little children in such books as they thought fit, another law might permit people to build as many churches as they pleased call them by what names they pleased preach what sermons they pleased and sing what tunes they pleased, other corporations could be as easily arranged and the propriety of putting the affairs of the

Union & Pensacola Banks into other hands could then be decided on—As to the Life and Trust when its charter is removed it will be very safe in the hands of the public—
I have thrown the foregoing together as my own individual opinions and only ask for them the consideration to which they may be entitled as such "
T. S. BROWN
TALLAHASSEE 6 May 1840
[Endorsed] Recd. with R. R. Reid's July 14" 1840.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ</dochead>
<source>[NA: WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>July 17" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>MARSHALL district of East Florida SIR, It has been represented to this department by General Armistead, Commanding the Army in Florida, that at several of the most important posts in that territory, a set of persons have taken up their residence, who are distitute of character, and who are in the habit of selling whiskey and other liquors to the troops, and as far as conjecture can go, are supplying the Indians with ammunition."
The President directs that you proceed to remove the intruders agreeably to the provisions of the Act of Congress of March the 3"
1807"—You will in the first instance warn them to depart by a given day; and if they do not remove within that period, you will then proceed to execute the above mentioned Act with as little injury to them as may be compatible with the object to be attained.
You are authorized to make application to General Armistead who will furnish you with the necessary force to carry these instructions into effect. JRP
P. S. I enclose you a copy of an opinion of the Attorney General on the subject.” JRP.

</docbody>
<dochead>GENERAL ORDER NO. , FLORIDA MILITIA</dochead>
<source>[LC: Tallahassee, The Floridian, Aug. 22, 1840]</source>
<place-time>Head Quarters Florida Militia, Adjt. and Insp. General's Office, TALLAHASSEE, 17th July, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>GENERAL ORDER—NO. 11.
The following instructions have been received from His Excellency, ROBERT RAYMOND REID, Commander-in-Chief of the Florida Militia.
The attention of the Commanding Officers of Brigades, Regiments, and Volunteer Corps, is earnestly invoked to the strict fulfillment of the injunctions therein contained. Any direliction of duty on the part of Officers relative thereto, will meet with prompt and merited disapprobation.
The Officers commanding the different Regiments will bear in mind constantly General Order No. 9—by a strict compliance with which, it is to be hoped that an efficient protection will be afforded the frontier against the savage foe.
By order of His Excellency, R. R. REID, Commander-in-Chief.
JNO. GRAHAM, Adjt. and Insp. Genl. Fla. Ma.
Executive Department, TALLAHASSEE, 17th July, 1840.
SIR—General Armistead having determined to remove the greater part of the Regular Forces to the East of the Suwannee, it is highly important that the troops in the Territorial service, the Militia of Middle and West Florida, and the Inhabitants generally, should be more vigilant than ever, and constantly on the alert, to resist the incursions of the enemy. No doubt the Indians, emboldened by the departure of such a number of men from the Middle District, will seek opportunity to attack the settlements, and it is the duty of every citizen, whether in or out of service, to be prepared, not only to repel the enemy, but to give a good account of him, should he appear upon our frontier.
You will direct the Colonel Commanding the Volunteers in service, to cause an incessant scouting to be kept up, between the posts, and in the adjacent hammocks and swamps; and you will take measures, if you have not already done so, for the immediate organization of the Militia, and if your orders are not promptly obeyed, you will report the delinquent and refractory, to the end that the laws of the land may be enforced against them.
To the Militia we look for the protection of our homes and firesides;
but how can they prove instruments of safety, without organization, discipline and subordination? Our People should not permit them-

selves to be lulled into a false security; it is impossible to tell when or where Indians may make their appearance; we should be prepared for them every where, and at all times. It is confidently believed, that with pickets around houses at all exposed; with citizens well armed at home, and prepared for defence; with a Militia determined to beat back and pursue the enemy; with the Volunteers continually in motion on a line beyond the settlements, we shall be able at least to protect ourselves, until the more active operations of the fall and winter months shall commence. Care and activity for a short time, may prevent the effusion of blood and destruction of property.
You will take care to encourage the formation of Volunteer Companies throughout the Territory. The Executive will have pleasure in endeavoring to procure for such Companies arms and accoutrements. The Tallahassee Guards, the Independent City Greys, the Iola Volunteers, and the Centreville Hussars, will hold themselves in readiness to march wherever and whenever they may be directed, and the public service may require.
You will facilitate, as much as possible the organization of the Regiment intended for the U. S. service—the Companies composing which will be mustered out of the Territorial service; they are to be received into the U.S. service for the term of three months; each company will consist of 61 Privates, 1 Captain, 1 1st Lieut., 1 second Lieut., 4 Sergeants, 4 Corporals, and 2 Musicians.
Men must be offered to the U. S.; Boys will not be received; such are the instructions from Washington; but at the same time, you will cause it to be distinctly understood, that the Commander-in-chief has great reason to be satisfied with the conduct of Boys in Florida, upon many trying occasions, and is perfectly aware, that they have often evinced a valor and patriotism worthy the imitation of men.
I am, Sir, very respectfully, yr. ob. st.
ROBERT RAYMOND Reid, Governor of Florida.
COL. JOHN GRAHAM, Adjt. & Insp. Genl. Fla. Ma.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>July 18" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD, St Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I have the honor to transmit, herewith, a copy of a letter to the Governor of Florida," and the instructions given by the department to Brigadier General Leigh Reid," on placing him in command of the

Militia, which the Governor of Florida has been called upon to furnish for the defence of the settlements in that portion of the Territory.
The object of giving General Reid this separate command is to devolve the duty and responsibility of defending the settlements of Middle and West Florida upon the Officers and troops of the Territory: and at the same time to leave the forces under you, free from the embarrassment of defending the settlements in their rear.
It is intended that the Militia called out by the Governor of Florida in conformity with the instructions of the department, shall be mustered into service by an Officer of the Regular Army, and be supplied entirely by Officers of the Staff of the Army."
The regular forces within the line of territory assigned to the command of General Reid will be withdrawn, with as little delay as practicable in order that the whole body of this description of troops may be concentrated under you and disposable to carry on the more active operations of the campaign in East Florida.
The department is gratified to learn that the late active operations of the Troops, of which it avails itself of this occasion to express its approbation, have been attended with much less suffering to the men engaged in them, than had been expected from the continuance of Military movements during the summer.
Measures have been taken to augment the forces under your command by the 1" of October next. The Commanding General will reply to your application respecting the third Regiment of Artillery.”
<dochead>JRP
COMMISSION OF L. WINDSOR SMITH AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (SOUTHERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attys. Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[July 21, 1840]</place-time>
MARTIN VAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of L. W. SMITH I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” Do appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Southern district of

Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said L. W. SMITH for the term of four years from the 20" day of July, 1840 unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty first Day of July in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty and of the Independence of the United States of America the [Blank]”
M. WAN BUREN
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JAMES T. ARCHER AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (WESTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attys. Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[July 22, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN WAN BUREN President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of JAMES T. ARCHER I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him Attorney of the United States, in and for the Western district of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and

fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said JAMES T. ARCHER for the term of four years from the 20" day of July, 1840 unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty Second Day of July in the Year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and forty and of the Independence of the United States of America the 65"
M. WAN BUREN
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
A copy of this Commission authenticated on the 28* September 1840, was transmitted on the 30* September 1840, to James T. Archer Esq at Pensacola, Territory of Florida "-accompanied by a copy of the letter of 224 July 1840,” accompanying the Commission—See letter to him of the 30* September 1840.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ROBERT BUTLER AS SURVEYOR GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Surveyors General Perm. Comms.]</source>
<place-time>[July 23 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the integrity, diligence, and discretion of R. BUTLER I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," do appoint him Surveyor of the public lands in the territory of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law, and to have and to hold the said office, with all the rights and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said R. BUTLER for the term of four years from the eleventh day of June 1840, unless the President of the United States for the time

being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters
[L.S.] to be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty third day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty and of the Independence of the United States of America, the 65**
By the President: M. WAN BUREN
JOHN FORSYTH Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT BY CITIZENS OF TALLAHASSEE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: DS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee FLORIDA August 10 1840</place-time>
<docbody>TO MARTIN WAN BUREN President of the United States SIR. The Constitution of the United States has placed the Government of the Territories, entirely under the controle of Congress, and Congress has established a form of government for the Teritory of Florida, by which all the civil rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States to the people of the several states are extended and secured to the people of this Teritory, although they have not the sacred political privileges.
The Acts of Congress profess to secure to our persons and property ample protection, but deny us the privilege of electing our own Executive and Judicial officers. The powers of appointment and removal of officers and concequently of control and responsibility so far as they exist, are vested in the President of the United States, and the officers appointed by him are not responsible to the people of Florida in any respect—
This state of dependence leaves the people of this Teritory only the remedy of complaint and remonstrance to the federal Executive, in case of misconduct in office on the part of the Teritorial functionaries, and the ultimate right of armed resistance which Nature gives all people, only when their grievances become too burdensome to be endured, and their remonstrances are unavailing with the power which should grant relief

Such being our situation we respectfully claim a right to call the attention of your Excellency to the recent conduct of Robert Raymond Reid Governor of this Teritory, We refer you to the annex’d documents, and the following statements as evidence of the Nature of that conduct It appears that the Governor has in a time of peace and quiet in our city, when nothing had occured of a more serious Nature than a few angry words between some few of our citizens in some cause of private quarrel, without calling upon the civil authority, without issuing or asking for any civil process, without any attempt by civil means to sustain the laws, which indeed there had been no attempt to violate, exercised his military authority and called into the city an armed force, troops in the pay of the Government of the United States, and subject to his orders and stationed them about his house taking possession of the Cannon on the Capitol Square and occupied certain of the public streets with lines of Musqutry, along which no citizen was allowed to pass without his leave, on pain of being shot, That he at the same time sent expresses into various sections of the country, to certain of our fellow citizens supposed to be attached to his person and political party, but pursueing their peaceful avocations, not in the service of the government and not subject to his orders, except to repel invasion or suppress insurrection, with orders or requests for them to come armed to the City That When our Citizens supprised and excited at these unusual movements, sent three respectable gentlemen to enquire into the causes and purposes of their operations, they were haughtily received and told in reply to their enquiry, that he was not answerable for his conduct to the people of Florida, but to the President of the United States, from whom he received his appointment, but condescended to say that his life had been threatened and summarily dismiss'd them without further reply—That subsequently, on the evening of the 4"
day of August he caused five citizens to be arrested by his armed soldiers, who were pursueing their way peacefully in the public streets, and no charge was made against them then and never has been made since and no other reason is known for it except the will and pleasure of the Governor, That it was only when our people justly indignant and alarmed at these invasions of their personal rights, this violation of the constitution and laws of the land, by the Authority sent to protect them and peculiarly bound by his office to uphold them, had solemnly determined in self defence to resist force by force, and were preparing with becoming forbearance and moderation, before any innocent blood was shed to send another civil and respectable deputation of citizens to learn if possible the cause of these outrages and to

require a dismissal of the troops, that they were at last dismiss'd, as we are informed at the earnest solicitation of some individual citizens But the deputation appointed by the citizens wishing to be fully informed of his purpose, deemed it their duty to make the communication which they had prepared a copy of which is annex’d hereto and dated August 5" 1840 and addressed by the committee to the Governor The committee waited on the Governor with this communication and only received a verbal answer, that the troops had just then been dismiss'd, and the only reason assigned for his extraordinary conduct, was, that the Governor had received some anonymous threatning letters, by which he had been so excited, that his repose was disturbed for several nights, and no assurance was given against the recurrence of similar scenes for the future A further communication was promised in writing but has not yet been received, There have been the grossest outrages upon the personal and civil rights of our citizens, ever perpetrated by any Executive officers since the foundation of the republic, and scarcely a paralell can be found in the arbitrary conduct of the British Governors in the incipient stages of the Revolution, and conduct in the representatives of his British majesty less in violation of their existing laws and less wanton, met with the ready and indignant resistance of the people Our regard for the Governors personal character compells us to believe that the anonymous letters mentioned must have been a mere pretext, as the spirit of manhood revolts at the idea that our Governor, the commander in chief of our people whilst war is rageing around us, whose duty it is to protect us from the savages, who has even now proclamations in the papers, exhorting the people to firmness vigilance and courage in protecting themselves upon the frontiers, could exhibit such a degree of pusillanimity as to withdraw troops from those frontiers exposed to a real & terific foe to protect him in the bosom of a peaceful community from the idle threats of anonymous and childish scribblers, and could permit his sense of propriety to be so far distorted by his fears as to induce him to arrest peaceable and innocent citizens at the point of the bayonet—In his behalf and for ourselves we repel the imputation upon our chief Magistrate, Common sense would have told him that a lurking assassin could have perpetrated his fell purpose hitherto, or might hereafter as he could not always remain fortified in his own house, And that a person entertaining such intentions would not have warned him against the blow, And the least enquiry would have informed him, (if his ignorance of the people he governs was such as to render it necessary) that the peaceable citizens would have turned out to a man to protect him, from the violence of a mob, if there had been one for their own sakes

- ––––~ *-* * =
if not for his—Nor can we suppose Governor Reid to have been actuated by an idea so stupid as that of establishing a permanent petty Military despotism in our Teritory, and that in future executive power was to be manifested and executive will executed by the Sword and Bayonet, and not as hithertoo by the Moral influence arising from the knowledge that a few people always stand ready with their lives to sustain their public functionaries in all lawful and just acts of power—
We confess with humility and mortification that the only reasonable
& plausible purpose which we can conjecture for his conduct is as grave and portentious as the two former have been ludicrous and contemptible, It may not be known to your Excellency, that we are divided here as every free people must be, into parties, each struggling to maintain its own opinions, and each doubtless for the most part equally concientious, and anxious only for the good of our common country both as to Teritorial affairs and general politics, Governor Reid is among the leaders of those parties, and has manifested] in all his acts, official as well as private a desire too promote and sustain his party by every means in his power, Although we should prefer that our Governor as he is sent to us by the President and not chosen by ourselves, should as far as possible hold himself aloof from and above party influence, yet we shall not complain so long as as it does not lead him to transcend his powers or urge him into acts of oppression, But it is a remarkable fact, that the very first attempt at organization, made by the party opposed to the political views of Governor Reid was made on the third day of August, as will be seen by a notice of a public meeting herewith enclosed,”
and that same evening the Governors expresses were sent for the troops which arrived the next Morning, this coupled with the fact, that expresses were sent to the country, at the same time calling in citizens of his party (who we are happy to say had too much good sense & patriotism to come) seem to establish a connection more than accidental, between the two occurrences and to stamp that connection with a political character, And we are led irrisistably to the conclusion that it was his design to overaw and put down by a timely exhibition of force & power the first germs of an opposition likely to be formidable for the first time, because for the first time organised, with the hope that by this interference with peaceble citizens in the exercise of their rights and duties the timid, wavering and doubtful, might be deter'ed from opposing his measures and that a large class of ordely & peaceble men who prefer to endure the evils of all most

any government, to the Anarchy confusion and blood shed of civil war, might remain quiescent in preference to joining or establishing any party the existence of which might by possibility lead to disasterous concequences-
If such was his purpose we submit it to your excellency to say whether it was becoming in a Democratic Governor, we are fully satisfied the people of no state in the union nor of the United States would tolerate it for a moment in their respective chief magistrates, we have no power and can only represent our grievances to the concideration of the Federal Executive, But what ever may have been the purposes of Governor Reid (for as he has not thought proper to explain, as yet we are left to conjecture) his conduct would have inevitably led, had not better counsels prevailed with him at the last moment, to most fatal results and we pray heaven in its mercy to avert a similar crisis from occuring in our country again, as we are well satisfied that not only the sanctity of the governors person would be in danger of being violated thereby, but the lives of valuable citizens be put in jeopardy—In conclusion we assure your Excellency that our citizens, generally entertain no personal hostility to Governor Reid and if confined to his legitimate powers, his political feelings would be a matter of utter indifference to us as that of such a functionary could possibly be—We heard at the time of his appointment that he was selected as a civilian, whos duty would be to be peaceful himself, but to cooperate with the Army, as far as the Enemy is concerned he is certainly peaceful as could be desired, but his civil knowledge has not taught him respect for civil rights, Towards the people he assumes a belligerent atitude, employing the troops in paradeing around his house and through the streets to the terror of the peaceful citizens misapplying the time of the military and squandering the means of the Governor not for the defence of the citizens, but for purposes of misrule and oppression We therefore submit the facts to your Excellency as the only authority which he reccognises, and the only one before which we can civily lay our grievances, We respectfully request that we may be informed in such manner and time as may suit the convenience of your Excellency, whether the conduct of Governor Reid upon this occasion meets with the censure or approval of the chief Executive Magistrate of our Republic, All of which is respectfully Submitted by W* P Duval Jno: Brown A. M. Gatling J. B. Bull David. F. Wilson Th: Bezeau L H
Bryant W. Wyatt Waler W Taylor Committee on behalf of the Citizens of Tallahassee

- - - - - - - - - - *-** *
[Endorsed] Ref" to the Sec'y of State M V. B. Let a copy of the within with the substance of the accompanying documents be sent to Gov. Reed, & he called upon for his defence agt. the charges exhibited agt. him & the memorialists informed of the receipt of the papers & that an investigation into the conduct of Gov Reed instituted by the President MVB Rec. Sept' 8" M. Dickens
[Enclosure]
Committee of Tallahassee Citizens to Governor Reid TALLAHASSEE 5 August 1840
TO HIS EXCELLENCY ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of the Territory of Florida SIR. As a committee on part of the citizens of Tallahassee we lay before your Excellency the affidavits of Levi Carlton, T. Bezeau, David F. Wilson Lewis H. Bryant, Waller W. Taylor and Charles Quayle,” all of whom are citizens of Tallahassee but one, who resides in the county of Madison. These depositions prove that an armed force now in the service of the United States have been called to Tallahassee and as you avow by your order “to maintain the supremacy of the laws” The Citizens of this place have met to enquire into the causes that have induced your Excellency to call into our city a military force (that had been provided for the defence of citizens on the frontier) and after due examination we have not been able to hear of any disorder or violation of the peace, except some angry words that passed between two of our citizens a day or two since and which has passed away without any violence. We can assure your Excellency that the citizens of Tallahassee will maintain the peace and order of the city! that any legal process that may be issued will be enforced and we will give to every individual citizen protection and security. If your Excellency knows of any instance in which resistance has been offer'd to the execution of any process issued by a Judge or Magistrate of the city or county, the citizens have not been apprised of it, nor have they been called on to sustain the civil authority. It is unusual, nor do we know of any instance since the adoption of the Federal Constitution when any Executive called in a military force to preserve the peace and order of a community where no actual violence has been comitted, and even when violence has occurred the military arm is never resorted to until the civil authority has been called upon and after trial found ineffectual Present, but not here reproduced.

We consider the introduction of an armed force under your orders into our city as a violation of the Constitution of the United States, subversive of the liberty of our citizens and calculated to degrade our character as orderly citizens at home and abroad. Your Excellency has been pleased to state in your letter of 4" inst * “that the public peace was yesterday in repeated instances violated” We presume your Excellency has not made this statement on your own knowledge but on such information as you have received. We call for proof of these repeated instances of violated laws which are charged to have occurred here on 3” inst. We assure your Excellency you have been imposed on by the fears of some timid persons or some whose malice or desire is only to traduce our fellow citizens, Except some hasty and passionate words that on the 3" inst passed between some of our citizens we know of nothing else that could have brought an armed force into our city. We know of no attempt at violence on the part of any of our citizens but your own officer Major Elias E. Blackburn on this day August 5" attempted by showing his bowie knife and by insulting and menacing manner and language to intimidate our citizens, If our peaceable citizens are to be arrested by the soldiers under your orders in the streets while pursuing their ordinary business or seeking social intercourse with each other, if they are to be threatened by armed sentinels if they do not stop, if our citizens are like criminals to be conducted before the officer of your guard before they are permitted to go about their own business, If they are not permitted to see you and learn the cause of their arrest, we are indeed under a military despotism unknown hitherto in the United States, Sir.
we protest on the part of our citizens against this exercise of military force over them, We claim all the rights of citizenship and these rights our duty as freemen will compel us to maintain and defend from all insult and violence come from what quarter it may, You sir, are as safe in this city as you would be in Washington under the immediate protection of the President of the United States and we pledge ourselves that yourself and family and friends require not protection from the military force under your command from any other enemy but the savage foe of our country—Entertaining these opinions and confident they are those of our fellow citizens we respectfully request that the military now in this city may be sent to the frontier to protect our fellow citizens who are in actual danger and where their services are necessary—This course we hope you will

- - - --~"- - -
approve and at once remove from our city the only real cause that can produce serious disorder and violence Your obdt Servts Wm P. DuVal Wm. Wyatt D. F. Wilson T. Bezeau Committee A. M. Gatlin of L. H. Bryant Citizens—
W. W. Taylor Tho” BrOWn J. B. Bull
[Endorsed] Rec" Sept’ 6” MVB Ref" to the Sect' of State who will please to bring this and the other papers relating to it with him tomorW 84 MVB
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN T. MCLAUGHLIN TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Offs. Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>U.S. Sch’ Flirt KEY BISCAYANO, August 11’ 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR; Capt Housman the Proprietor of Indian Key, having called upon me for a Garrison for the Island, I entered into arrangements with him for the cession of the whole Key to the United States, except a small portion of it, for his Store and dwelling. This arrangement cedes the Key to the United States, for a Military Post, during the continuance of the Florida War, or for so long as the United States may think proper to hold it for that purpose, during the continuance of the war.
The Key being thus placed under Military control exclusively, I
have ordered the removal of my Hospital and depot from Tea Table Key thereto. Abundance of water, with good wharves and storage in three outhouses, which escaped the flames, have been the inducement to make this transfer, whilst at the same time it saves me the necessity of further dividing my small force to furnish another garrison for this place.
I have the honor to enclose you a copy of the arrangement entered into, with Capt Housman.”

Respectfully, Sir, I have the honor to be, JOHN T. M*LAUGHLIN Lieut: Comdt:
THE HON J. K. PAULDING Secretary of the Navy Washington D.C
[Endorsed] L*M*Loughlin 11 Augt. transfer of his force to Indian Key which the owner has ceded during the war. M 107 Sept. 2 Voor JOHN T. MCLAUGHLIN TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN Offs. Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>U.S. Sch’ Flirt KEY BISCAYNo August 11th 1840</place-time>
SIR, I regret to inform you that whilst at Anchor here on the morning of the 8" inst, an express reached me from Mid" F. K.
Murray, bearing a letter, of which the enclosed is a copy,” advising me of the capture of Indian Key by the Indians—
The wind and tide being both adverse, and the channel way very narrow & intricate, I immediately transferred all the Marines and crew of this Wessel, but such as were required to navigate her, to the Otsego, and started for Tea Table Key, where we arrived during the night, —leaving this Wessel to follow at the change of tide. On our arrival there, we found that the Indians, who proved to be the Spanish Indians, having loaded their boats with supplies of every description from the Store of Mr Houseman the proprietor of the Key, had destroyed the town by fire, and retired without molesting our hospital & depot at Tea Table Key, distant but one mile, for which the most serious apprehensions were entertained—Mid: Murray had however made every preparation for its defence, which his limited means would allow—
That the Indians were conducted to this attack by some person or persons acquainted with the localities of the Key, cannot be doubted—
Their landing was effected on the outerside of the Key, at a point the most remote from their approach, yet at a corner of the town uninhabited, whilst every consideration, if ignorant of this fact, would have induced them to have landed at a point directly opposite, Landing where they did their retreat was liable to be cut off, and but for the loss of his guns, there is every reason to believe M. Murray would have effected this in the destruction of their canoes:—Whilst by landing at the opposite point of the Key, their retreat could have been securely effected on the approach of any danger, Again, Negroes were seen among them, who, with others were heard to speak English, & these last, not in the dialect of the Negro; this information is gathered from the sufferers by the Attack. Lieut: Comdt: Rodgers

in the Wave had left there but the day before for Cape Romano, carrying with him from Tea Table Key every man capable of doing service but five. That his departure was communicated to, or looked for by the Indians there cannot be a doubt. In the presence of his force, their invariable policy forbids the belief that they would have ventured upon the attack—
In so serious a disaster, where so great a loss of life was to be looked for, it is gratifying to know that it was small. D* Perrine, Mr Motte, his wife and two young children, and a lad named Turdy, were killed,—
the latter drowned in a cistern in which he had concealed himself—
Mr Otis was wounded, and the missing are a negro woman with her two children belonging to M.” Howe, and a negro child belonging to Mr Houseman—These were carried off by the Indians—They retired at 2 PM. of the 6" ulto. in thirty four boats, six of which had been taken from the Key. In some of the boats six, seven, & eight people were counted, in none less than four, so that their number could not have been short of one hundred thirty four people—
Those who escaped from the Key found refuge in the Sch' Medium then lying in the harbour. Every convenience and comfort which it was in the power of the Officers of this Expedition to furnish them in their destitute condition has been extended to them. I have also furnished them such supplies from the public stores as were necessary—
The Widow & family of Dr Perrine have taken shelter in this Wessel, awaiting transportation to the North—"
Respectfully, Sir, I have the honor to be JOHN T. M*LAUGHLIN Lieut: Comdt:
THE HON: J. K. PAULDING Secretary of the Navy Washington City
[Endorsed] 11 Aug L" M*Laughlin report of the destruction at Indian Key M 107 Sept. 2 Voor"
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>August 13" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>ROBERT BUTLER, Esq. Sur" Gen.' Tallahassee Florida SIR I herewith enclose for your information and government a statement marked H* of the Surveying appropriations for your district shewing the balances undrawn and available on the 31* July

1840; from which you will perceive that the balance of the General Appropriation is $2,000, : being For the survey of private claims 500 Miles @ $4 a mile estimated in your last annual report $2,000
And that of the special appropriation $16,000 Available as follows:
For old surveys at not exceeding $5 a mile ordered in 1837— 6,000
For new surveys at Ditto ** s & in 1840 10,000
Making total as above $16,000
For the reasons assigned in my late communication to you” on the subject of the expenditure of the appropriation for clerk hire in your office, to wit, a possible deficiency in the public revenue to meet the expenditures appropriated for at the late session of Congress, which renderes it necessary that all the disbursements should be restricted to the least possible amount consistent with the public interest, and in view of the fact that a very large body of new lands has been put into market this year and is now subject to private entry, and that owing to the delay of the passage of the general appropriation laws until the close of the late session of Congress, more than six months have elapsed of the year, for the Service of which, your estimates, were originally made, it is deemed advisable to limit your contracts for the present surveying season, to the $2,000 general appropriation at $4 a mile, and $4,000 of the special appropriation of $10,000 of surveys at a price not exceeding $5 a mile, making together $6,000, or one half the aggregate of the appropriations for new surveys in your district reserving the balance for future instructions or to be carried forward and taken into the account of the estimates for the service of 1841.—In making contracts for the above surveys, the duplicates of which, shewing the particular townships, you will lose no time in forwarding to this office; You will be expected to comply strictly with the directions contained in my circular to the Surveyors General of the 5" instant, relative to the number of miles to be embraced in any one contract, and the time allowed for its completion, and you will as heretofore render separate quarterly accounts and vouchers for your disbursements under the Special appropriations for Surveys at augmented prices—
Should the Indian hostilities on account of which your late estimate of $20,000 for surveying at regular prices was not submitted to Congress, still render it hazardous for the deputies to take the field, of which you are the better enabled to judge, it may become necessary

to make a further reduction of the amount to be expended for new surveys, in which case you will make such reduction and immediately advise this office thereof *
I am, Sir, Very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Commissioner WALKER. K. 
</docbody>
<dochead>ARMISTEAD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 259: LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs: Army of Florida CEDAR KEYS 17* August 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have recently had an interview with his Excellency the Governor of Florida, and Brig. Gen Read of the Militia. Both of these gentlemen concur in opinion that it will be extremely difficult to get any volunteers to serve as footmen, and in my opinion there is no probability of raising this force, as three months have already elapsed since the authority was given to organize such a force, and not a man has come forward.
To remedy this evil, it is proposed to protect the Settlements by employing the men in the neighbourhood, giving them soldier's pay, with out rations. Thereby a body will be formed sufficiently strong for the purposes of immediate defence at a small expense, while the mounted force will be left free to carry on operations at a distance from the settlements.
These views are submitted with a hope that you may order the attempt to be made as being the only mode left to create a force of dismounted men in Florida.
I have the honor to report for the information of the dep’t, that a portion of Captain Beall's command stationed near this place at Fort N° 4, is scouring the country South to the Withlacoochee, while a detachment of the 1* Infantry from this post and Fort Fanning has proceeded to Fort White, in pursuit of Indians believed to be in that neighbourhood.
I am Sir Very respectfully Your Ob’t Serv't W K ARMISTEAD Brig. General Commd." Army of Florida TO, THE HONORABLE THE SECRETARY OF WAR Washington D.C.
|Endorsed 2591 Sept 40. Sept 2, 1840. Adjutant General Cedar Keys 17. Augt: 1840. B. G. W. K. Armistead US. A. Reports in reference to an interview with Gov. & G Reid as to the raising of the Wol” and the substitute agreed upon, &c. Sept: 29–1840 Rec"
Sep. 29

</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 223:LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs. Army of Florida CEDAR KEYS August 20" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I respectfully acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the
30" ulto," enclosing a statement of officers who left Florida by authority of General Taylor, -of the 31" Ult.” relative to selecting a proper officer for mustering the Militia, and of the 3" inst.” relative to furnishing an escort to the Marshall of the Eastern district in taking the census.”
Nearly all the Militia force has been mustered into service by Major Churchill, tho' his health for some time past has been very feeble.
The mounted men compose thirteen companies, which under the organization of May 1792,” makes an aggregate of 1001 men exclusive of field & staff. It is much to be doubted whether any volunteer footmen can be raised.
While on the subject of the Militia, I would remark that although a Brigadier General has been appointed and mustered into service, yet no instructions have been received to organize a Brigade, nor will it I fear be possible to raise men enough for the purpose unless they can all be mounted. The Militia force mustered into Service, agreeably to instructions from the War Dept; and Head Qrs. of the Army, now present the anomalous organization of one Brig. Gen', one Colonel—one Lt. Colonel, one Major and 13 Companies."
Measures have been taken to furnish the Marshall of the Eastern district with a sufficient escort in the performance of his duty in taking the census.
I enclose a communication from L' Col. Riley" relative to the disposition to be made of the late Ordnance Sergeant at Fort King, who has by sentence of a garrison Court Martial been reduced to the rank of a private sentinel, and respectfully request the decision of the General in Chief in the case.
I am Sir Very respectfully Your ob’t Serv't W K ARMISTEAD Brig. General Commd." Army of Florida THE AD" GENERAL U.S. ARMY Washington

[Endorsed] 223 Army of Florida Cedar Keys, Augt 20, 1840 W.K.
Armistead Brig. Gen'l Comm” In relation to the Militia. Reports the receipt of letters 30 & 31* July & 3 Augt. enclosing a list of officers absent from Florida. The Militia has been mustered into service by Maj: Churchill—aggregate 1001. Refers to B G Reid's being mustered into service. Encloses Lt. Col. Rily's reporting on S: Sergeant Kenton tried & reduced &c Sept: 2. 1840 The instructions relative General Read's Florida Brigade, have emanated from the Executive, relative to which the General-in Chief, has had no agency—R Jones A. g. Respectfully laid before the Sec; of War. R. Jones A. g. Returnd.
Sepr. 16*
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA: JD, Atty. Gen. Lets. Recd., 1273: ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office ST AUGUSTINE Aug" 20th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I enclose herewith statements of six cases which were decided against the United States at the last session of our court viz John W. Lowe & others 16.000 acres Heirs of Clarke & Atkinson 15.000 “
John Breward 16.000 “
Domingo Acosta 8.000 “
Heirs of G. J. F. Clarke 1.000 “
Heirs of Delia Broadaway 500 “
In the first four cases, as the law requiring them to be carried to the Supreme Court is imperative I have in accordance with a practice which I adopted at an early period in these land cases in order to facilitate sending them up on appeal this course although not according to the literal interpretation of the act (which seems to require the Dictrict Attorney first to make his statement and then wait the Fiat of the Attorney General (see sec. 9. of the act of 23* May 1828, Land Laws part 1" page 438, has been tasitly approved by your predecessor
& no evil has risen from it so far as I am advised; No new principle was adjudicated upon in any of the cases, every question presented in them it is believed has been fully settled by the cases referred in these statements & by other cases before decided by the Supreme Court.
In the case of Pedro Mirando & others on a claim for 368.400 acres the counsel for the claimants after the verdict of the jury in their favour on the issue at law proposed to us to permit them to take a decree Pro Forma for 46.080 acres the quantity of land to which they were entitled, if the grant is genuine reserving to each party the right of appeal—to which for the purpose of saving time; I assented on condition that the costs shall abide the decision of the Supreme Court;

and a decree was entered accordingly from which both parties appealed. This is a very important case & I shall endeavor to send you a full statement of it together with notes as full as may be in my power of the arguments & authorities which had been prepared by the respective counsel; upon the only question remaining in this case after the verdict viz The proper rendering into English of the Spanish words
“Ocho Leaguas En Quadro” the counsel for the claimants as a further condition to my assent to the above proposition agreed to furnish me with a note of the point which he had intended to make and of the authorities which he had prepared to adduce had that question been argued here. I sent you sometime since, a copy of the records of the feigned issue, & some rough notes of the arguments presented, upon the trial of it.
Two claims were rejected viz The Heirs of Rodrigues 30.000 Acres
& The Heirs of Charles W. Clark 16.000 “
Five were argued and submitted and are under advisement viz John M Hanson & others 16.000 Acres
3 cases Heirs of G. J. F. Clarke 2000 each 6.000 “ & The Heirs of E Wiggins .300 “
The court has adjourned over to the 3" Monday in November when it is believed they will be decided, and as also the following 5 cases “Wiz”
John Sanchez 4.00 Acres Francis R. Sanchez 5.00 “
Joe G. Sanchez 4.00 “
F. J. Ross & others 8.00 “
John Houston 7.00 “
I was ready in all the other cases several of them, however had to be continued on account of the death of parties & four of the most important of them, “Viz”
Nicoll Trumbull & others 57.300 Acres Heirs of Joseph M Arredondo 40.000 “
Heirs of F.M. Arredondo 50.000 “
& Heirs of F.M. Arredondo & M. E. Levy 256.000 “
were continued on motion of the claimant's counsel, sustained by affidavits shewing cause, the principal ground of which was the absence of D. Levy Esq one of the Counsel for the claimants in whose possession the papers of the claimants had been so that these cases could not be prepared for argument at this term—I also send you a work in Spanish on the subject of surveying in the Island of Cuba, which may throw some light on the Miranda case, In several of these mill grants as in those of Brevard & Lowe & others the term is “Cinco Millas en quadro” which has always here been translated, five miles square making 16.000 acres & in these cases as well as several others the

grantee's in their petitions to the Governor go on to ask specific quantities of Land at places which they point out, making in whole 16.000
acres which are granted shewing that the Governor put that construction upon these words. Hence the reason why I have not raised the same question in these cases that I did, in the Miranda case, all the mill grants of this description were offered in evidence, by the claimants in the Miranda case, there is however this distinction between them, mile was never used even in the grants to signify any thing but lineal measure, until long after the date of the Miranda grant while league had been used in Cuba time out of mind for superficial measure and a league of land was a term in as common & familiar use there as acre is with us, I think this book, as well as the testimony of Mr.
Trist & the other witnesses in Cuba shew this conclusively, this Province was attached to the Captaincy General of that Island, at the date of the Miranda grant & there was very frequent intercourse between this city & that Island as it was very natural there should be and the term league of Land was doubtless well known & understood here as used in Cuba at that time.
With Great respect I have the honor to be, Sir Your Obt Serv"
THO DOUGLAS
HON. H. D. GILPIN Atty Gen' U. States City of Washington, D.C
[Endorsed] St. Augustine 20 August 1840. Thomas Douglas, Dist.
Att’ inclosing notes of the arguments and decisions in several Florida Land cases. 1273.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN T. MCLAUGHLIN TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA: ND, SN Offs. Lets.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>U.S. Sch: Flirt KEY WEST August 21*1840.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to inform you that the inhabitants of Key West, have called upon me for a garrison for the protection of their town. A copy of their letter, with my reply thereto, I have the honor to enclose.”
The high excitement caused by the late disaster at Indian Key, and the apprehensions entertained by the residents here, are the only justification I can offer, for having appropriated the force of this expeditions to purposes, wherein it was not contemplated that it should be employed. It certainly was never the intention of the Department, to establish garrisons in the towns on this reef with the Seamen and Marines of this expedition; yet in the absence of a Military force, I have yielded to the requisition of the inhabitants, in the hope that the presence of a regular force, may soon allay their apprehensions and

regain them a confidence in their resources and power of self-defence.
The people of Key West appear to expect protection from the Government exclusively, whilst they take no measures for their own self preservation. With a population exceeding five hundred, they are content to sit down under the protection of twenty, or thirty seamen. This is a manner of defence I am not willing to permit.
For the present however, I have granted them a guard of this number, the unhealthy and stormy season having arrived, which precludes the possibility of any further active operations until November. At that time unless I shall be otherwise instructed in the interim, I shall withdraw these garrisons and return the force to the duties assigned it in the General Instructions I had the honor to receive from you.
Respectfully Sir, I have the honor to be JOHN T. M*LAUGHLIN Lieut: Comdt:
THE HON: J. K. PAULDING Sec'y of the Navy Washington City—
[Endorsed] L*M*Laughlins reasons for leaving a garrison at Key West 21 Augt M 114 Sept. 2 Voor GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
<source>[NA: WD, SW Lets. Recd., F 134: ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST: AUGUSTINE E Fl" 22" Aug 1840</place-time>
SIR, On arriving at this place the day before yesterday, the melancholy news reached me of the capture & destruction of Indian Key by the Indians. Among the Inhabitants murdered was the estimable and scientific Doctor Perrine.
As the Indians were accompanied by Several white persons (Such are the Reports which have reached me) and have possessed themselves of a quanity of Gun-powder and Lead from Cap" Housmans ware-houses—it is not improbable they will make attempts upon Key Waccas or Key West in South & upon Micanopie—Newnansville—Black Creek or even St. Augustine in East Florida. It is important that these places Should be well defended.
I shall immediately offer rewards for the apprehension of all whites
& blacks holding intercourse with, or aiding the Indians" & will endearor to cause the patrol Laws and a Strict police in the Towns &
Cities, to be enforced.
Such is the deplorable condition of East Florida that I have been obliged to call into the Territorial Service, on this Side the Suwanee, as many as Six Companies & I may be compelled to raise the Seventh.

I have received them on the condition, that they forage & Subsist themselves until they are discharged or received into the Service of the U. States. These Seven companies will make up the Five hundred now wanting, to complete the 1500 men, you required me to raise for Gen' Reads command. They are Horsemen & I hope you will order them to be taken into Service. Footmen cannot be procured. -
But I must be permitted to Say, that 1500 men are not a sufficient force for the Military district commanded by Gen' Read—it is a very large one, infested with Indians in every direction, & if the force be not increased to 3000 horsemen—disasters & defeat may be expected."
I am not in possession of your views respecting the numbers &
operations of the Regular Army; but it is my duty to ask, in behalf of our Suffering people, that the first may be as great as possible & that both Regulars & Volunteers be kept constantly in action. Perhaps, if the Army had been in full pursuit of the Indians, the disasters at Indian Key would not have occurred.
There should be a competent naval force upon the Coast to Second the efforts of the Army on Shore & to intercept the fishermen who are trading with the Indians & providing them with ammunition. Small Steam boats & armed vessels of light draught are best Suited to Such a Service.
I am afraid you will not find the plan adopted for the prosecution of the War, as efficacious as you expect it to be—but to make it as much So as possible, allow me to Say, the Surgical & Quarter Masters Departments for the volunteers Service Should be filled from the Citizens & not from the Regular Army. I know there are objections to this; but they will be more than compensated by the embarrassments which will be avoided.
I repeat the assurance heretofore given, that every thing shall be done on my part that can be, to give the fullest & most prosperous effect to your measures.
I wrote you Some time Since respecting the Accounts of the Territory for moneys expended and for debts contracted for the military Service during the present & past years.” The accounts for middle Florida are made out & in a State of readiness as those for the East will soon be ready for examination.
If two Officers could be appointed—one for the Eastern & the other for the Middle districts, to settle & pay off these demands—I should be very much relieved & gratified.

The account for the dogs from Cuba remains yet unpaid—allow me to ask your attention to it.
I received yesterday a proposition from a Citizen of Black Creek M" Murphy—which Should it Succeed, will afford an example worthy to be followed. He proposes to go with a company of footmen to Fowl Town 8 miles in advance of Fort King, to clear & cultivate the country & at the Same time protect themselves against the Indians—
he will, as an inducement to his men, pay from his own pocket, the difference between the Infantry & dragoons pay—but he asks for Six or eight Horses & forage for them. If it be in your power to authorize Such enterprizes, I should be glad to have your permission to encourage them. Be pleased to give a Special Order for allowing the Horses, above mentioned to M' Murphy & for forage for them.
The Situation of affairs in Florida is worse than it has ever been;
& the most vigorous & active measures are required at the present juncture. I am heart Sick at the prospect before us. There were
150 Indians at Indian Key—150 are at this moment in the Okefanokee Swamp or upon its borders—There are besides Several hundred Warriors who do not belong to these parties—many of them in Middle Florida & many South of the Suwanee. We underrate the numbers of the Enemy & there is no Safety in Florida. If these troubles exist for Six months longer, many of our most valuable Inhabitants will leave the country in despair— I am Sir, Very respectfully Your ob"Sev"
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
HON J. R. POINSETT Secretary of War
[Endorsed] F. 134 1 Sept 8 9 September 1840. Answ" W D. 10
Sept. 1840° file W.D.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN J. ABERT TO JOHN MACKAY</dochead>
<source>[NA: WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 4]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Top Engrs. WASHINGTON, Aug. 24" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>CAPT J. MACKAYC. T. E. Savannah SIR Your letters of the 17th 4 & 18th * inst with their enclosures have been duly received.
Work under contract, like that of the road from Jacksonville to Newnansville is beyond our controul. We have no power to arrest it, and, of course, the orders of the Bureau could not have contem-

plated works in that condition. It must go on as usual and in conformity with the terms of the contract.
The canal now cutting at the Talbot dividing must submit to the directions which have been given, unless some very serious inconveniences should be found to attend the temporary suspension of operations which those directions contemplated.
Enclosed is a copy of a letter from this Bureau of the 17* July,"
which, it would appear from the letter of L' Gunnison, had never reached you.
Respectfy Signed: J.J. ABERT C'T.E.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS BALTZELL TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets. ALS]</source>
<place-time>[August 25, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRES" OF THE UNITED STATES
SIR I have the honor of forwarding to you a statement & protest of certain Citizens of Tallahassee against a petition purporting to have been authorized by the Citizens complaining of the Conduct of Governor Reid"—In the Star of to day your excellency will perceive that the meeting of the citizens appointing this Committee “was suddenly called in the emergency of the case—by the beat of the drum the ringing of a bell & so on—& was numerously attended though doubtless many good citizens never heard of it till it was over Some were in their beds &c” This is the account given of it by its supporters—
Very respectfully T BALTZELL
TALLAHASSEE 25 Augt 1840
[Addressed] His Excy Martin Van Buren Prest U. States Washington DC [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo. Augt 25 1840 Free
[Endorsed] Ref" to the Secty of State MVB Rec. 5* Sept Mr Dickens
[Enclosure: DS]
Citizens of Tallahassee to the President
[August 25, 1840]
To HIS EXCY MARTIN WAN BUREN, President of the United States SIR Perceiving in the Extra “Star” of the date of [Blank] only issued on yesterday, a letter addressed by Wm P. Duval, W" Wyatt, 6 Not found.

David F. Wilson, W. W. Taylor, L. H. Bryant, J. B. Bull & Thomas Brown, professing to act as a Committee of the Citizens of Tallahassee.—Now we the undersigned Citizens of Tallahassee, protest against the letter as written without authority, as it was without any Sanction from us individually, and no public meeting of the Citizens was held constituting or raising the Committee aforesaid for any such purpose R H. Berry W" Dickenson Sam S Sibley James T Archer D. M. Sheffield Jas B Carlisle W. Anderson John C. Jacobi B Croom Tho" Tillinghast Tho" Lindenberger Geo F. Hatheway D. M*Rainy L M Demick A. E. Harris John Miller James A. Berthelot Stephen Miller Wm H. Francis Nathaniel M Hibbard A A Nunes A. Spingler Draftsman Sur. Gen' Office Thomas Baltzell JW Levinus S. N. Daniel L.A. Thompson R. W. Limbeck R. W. White Wm H. Michael I G Searcy
[Endorsed] Recd. with T Baltzell's Augt. 25th. 1840.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE DOWNING TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON August 28*1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, It is with much reluctance that I address you in reference to the conduct of Govn Reid, of Florida—The whole case having been presented to your consideration by a very able committee of the citizens of Tallahassee,” I should have remained silent; but, from some remarks which appeared in the “Globe” of yesterday, I am apprehensive, that an attempt has been made to give a different colouring to the matter, and to support Govn Reid in his lawless violation of the constitution, and rights of our citizens—
Govn Reid, I know not by what authority, certainly by no law, has a body of militia under his control, mustered into the service of

the United States, and receiving pay and subsistence from the General Government—This corps, as I am informed, is composed mostly of discharged soldiers of the regular army—All the officers of this corps are appointed by the Govn" in despite of the laws of Florida, which prescribe that “officers of the militia shall be elected by their seperate command”—It has been publicly charged in the newspapers in Florida, that these appointments are all made with reference to politics, and that no man can get a commission, unless his democracy is orthodox—unless he declares himself a friend, both to your administration and to that of Govn Reid—As this rule disqualifies the best materiel of Florida—excludes our best citizens and most skilful Indian fighters, it follows that his officers are sometimes badly selected, although they are always devoted to himself—In this state of things with a soldiery having no community of feeling and interest with the citizens, and officered only by the Governor's partizans, you will at once see the danger to the peace of the Territory in bringing against the people a corps like this, for no other reason than a private quarrel in the street between two individuals, and because one of them, the Governor's friend, thought he would be safer with a portion of the Army to defend him—This, Sir, as I am assured by the most respectable authority, was the only excitement at Tallahassee before the introduction of the military—The reasons given by the Govn" for their introduction are not the true ones—You know it is the fashion for the dominant party to make the banks, godfathers to every offence—and so it is in this case—But, I assure you Sir, the banks had no more to do with this quarrel, than the ghost of Banquo—Nor would any but the most fertile or frightened fancy attribute it to their agency—
True there are many of the best citizens of Florida friendly to her banks, who do not consider them swindling shops—nor their directors rogues—nor those who support them, British bought aristocrats, and who will not suffer themselves to be called “Abolitionists” or the allies of “Abolitionists,” merely because they would prefer a different set of rulers—
The reasons given by the Govn himself seem to me exceedingly puerile, and are certainly insufficient to justify him, in calling the army intrusted to him for the defence of the frontier, from their posts of utility, and placing them in battle array against the citizens-
“Mr Francis was assaulted”—“M” Anderson threatened”—“M”
Brown treated with indignity insult.” And for this the frontier is left defenceless and Florida placed on the brink of a civil War—I ask you Sir, if we have not war enough in that afflicted Territory, without bringing the army of the United States or the militia in their service, 

against us—If the Govn" is so unpopular as to require an army to defend him, so timid as to think it necessary, so careful of his own safety as to leave the frontier unprotected and the lives of those entrusted to his care at the mercy of the savage—because—“M”
Francis was assaulted”—“M” Anderson threatened”—“M” Brown treated with indignity and insult”, and he himself frightened, I ask you, Sir, if he is the proper Governor for the Territory of Florida, at such a time as this—of war and of massacre?—And Sir, I beg leave to inform you—that all these enormities complained of by the Govn"
were committed by one single individual! Yes Sir, the same one man—“assaulted Francis—threatened Anderson—insulted Brown”—
and alarmed the Governor—The other reason given by the Govn" is an after thought—He was heard to say, after the soldiers were sent away, that he had never heard before of an intention to pull down the printing office—In a word M. President, as has already been said, you have “placed an unwelcome ruler over an unwilling people”—
one totally unfit for the duties that are now his—either of War or of peace–And I assure you Sir, that I believe my friends, in assigning to you the reasons for the conduct of the Govn have not given due weight to his habits—And if he is continued in office, which I would deeply lament, what has poor Florida to expect—from a civil and military ruler unpopular enough to be in personal danger from popular odium—timid enough to apprehend it—reckless enough to place armed soldiery around his house—selfish and unfeeling enough to rob the women and children, on the frontier of the defences provided them—to protect himself against danger, the idea of which, could originate only in a highly excited imagination?—
I beg you Sir, to excuse me for addressing you on the subject of Florida appointments, as I have long since proved it useless—But I
feel it my duty to unite my feeble voice with those who complain of the conduct of Govn Reid, and to ask you if his profession of attachment to yourself and of hostility to the banks are sufficient, in your estimation, to palliate or justify his conduct?
I have the honour to be Very respectfully Your obdt. Servant.
C. DOWNING
HIS EXCELLY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES—
[Endorsed] Ref" to the Secty of State. The allegations contained in it to be communicatd to Gov" Reid when the charges ref" to are rec" MVB Rec. Sept. 4* M: Dickens

</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from GLO to ST:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE September 2nd 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR; I have the honor to submit herewith the enclosed correspondence of the Surveyor General at Tallahassee Florida, with this office, relative to the location of the grant of ten acres of land to the Tallahassee Rail Road Company, made by the 3rd section of the Act of Congress approved March 3" 1835" (Pamph. laws 2nd sess. 23"
Cong. page 48)
In answer to the Surveyor General's letter of the 13th Feby last "
asking for a copy of the original map and instructions, and requesting the decision of the Department (or attorney General of the U.S.)
whether under the 3rd section of the Act granting the ten acres “At the junction of St. Mark's & Waculla rivers the point where the roads terminates” &c shall be laid down on the plats of his office as a valid grant “when the road has been carried beyond that point to a scite of a town laid out by the company,” A copy of the original Map herewith enclosed,” on the face of which will be found the approval of the location by the President on the 25th June 1835, and of the commissioner's letter of the 3rd July 1835* (copy enclosed Marked A) were sent with my letter of the 9th March 1840 * (copy enclosed marked B) communicating the opinion of this office that the President having acted once, by approving the location on the 25th June
1835, it would not be competent for him to change the location without further legislation of Congress, and requiring him to adhere to the original instructions of 3rd July 1835. In his letter of the 21st March last," the Surveyor General requests that his former question may be yet submitted for the decision of the Attorney General, and although I can see no reason for changing the opinion already expressed, very important interests being involved, I would respectfully recommend that his opinion may be taken on the point at issue.
I also enclose a copy of the acting Secretary of War's letter of the
29th June 1835" (Marked C) with which the approved plat was transmitted to this office, there being no copies of the correspondence of General Call with the Secretary of the Treasury referred to by the Surveyor General, on file in this office.
All which is respectfully submitted.

I am, sir, your obed" Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Commissioner To THE HON. LEVI WoODBURY Secretary of the Treasury N.B. Please return the plat and the Surveyor General's two letters of the 13th Feb” and 21st March last to this office being the originals.
Yours respectfully JA* WHITCOMB Comm”
[Endorsed] Com Sept 2" 1840 relative to grant to Tallahassee Rail Road Company—copy of attorney Generals opinion returned with the other papers on the 28* Oct. original plat returned to Com by Atty General a few days after. C 132 Take his opinion" as desired W* Sept 2 Hartley is THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DAVID E. TWIGGS
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>Sept. 5, 1840.</place-time>
COLONEL D. E. TWIGGS. Gareys Ferry, Florida.
SIR, The Adjutant General has laid before me your letter to him of the 21" ulto.," informing him of your having pushed forward all your disposable force for the protection of the inhabitants in the vicinity of the outrages recently perpetrated by the Indians near the Suwannee and the Georgia frontier. This Act fully meets the approbation of the Department, and until the General Commanding in Florida can take the necessary measures of protection, and for the expulsion of the Indians, you will continue to use every exertion in your power to accomplish those objects.
The Governor of Georgia has informed the Department that he has called out two companies of Militia, from Gen Hilliards brigade, for the protection of the Citizens in the neighborhood of the outrages.
These companies you will promptly cause to be mustered into the service of the United States, and have them furnished with the necessary supplies of subsistence.”
J.R.P.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>September 8, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXC ROBERT RAYMOND REID. Governor of Florida. S. Augustine, Florida.
SIR, By direction of the President I have the honor to request that, in addition to the Militia force you have already been required to call out and place under the command of Brig. General Read, you will be pleased to call out two hundred men, to be mounted and to serve under the same Officer; thus making the whole force to be commanded by him twelve hundred mounted men and five hundred foot.
I enclose for your information a copy of a letter just written to that Officer on this subject and in reference generally to the execution of the duties confided to him.
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO LEIGH READ</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>September 8, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIG. GENERAL LEIGH READ. Comd’g Florida Militia Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22" ultimo,” and regret to find in it a confirmation of the successful attempt of the Indians again to disturb the settlements in Middle Florida.
I am equally sensible with yourself of the great importance of some military organization of the people living within the infested districts and think it may be rendered effectual in the manner you propose.
The five hundred Infantry you are authorised to raise may be distributed among the settlements, and constitute the neighborhood force.
It is only necessary that they should be mustered into the service, which may be done at the place appointed for their rendezvous and then be kept to guard their own hearthstones in the manner suggested by you.
I am sorry it is not in my power to accede altogether to your wishes respecting the increase of your mounted force or the extension of their term of service—You are aware that the means at the disposal of the Department for the conduct of the Florida war are very limited and all the calculations of the several Bureaux, charged with the administration of the Military service, were based upon the force assigned to your command, which, at the time, you considered would

be sufficient to defend the settlements and prevent the Indians returning to Middle Florida when pressed by the operations of the regular troops in the Eastern and lower parts of the Territory”—
The sudden incursions of the savages into Georgia and the necessity of raising a force to protect the frontier of that state, and which has been called out by the Governor, will increase the number of mounted men in the service, at this time, to an inconvenient extent. Desirous, however, of providing you with efficient means for your active operations I have determined to authorise the Governor to add to your Brigade two hundred mounted men, which will give you an effective command of twelve hundred mounted men.” Whenever these men can be usefully employed on foot you are authorised to place their horses in safe pastures until wanted for service: by which means a sufficient number of men may be kept in active operations in the field, while the horses of those who remain in garrisons may berecruiting and kept ready to succeed the worn out horses of the scouting parties—In this manner the service may be better performed, and the horses kept in good order at less expense to government—With regard to increasing the term of service, I acknowledge its expediency, but have no power to do it—I am aware with yourself that the laws for governing the Militia do not apply to Volunteers: but there is no authority of law for accepting a Volunteer force at all: nor can I authorise the raising a Volunteer force by the Legislature of the Territory of Florida.
Whatever measures the territorial Government may think proper to adopt in the existing emergency would in all probability be sanctioned by Congress; but the Executive cannot receive troops into the service in any other manner than the law allows.” I regret that my earnest recommendations to Congress were not acted upon during the last session and assure you I shall lose no time in reiterating them when Congress next reassembles.
J.R.P.
P.S.. I inclose for your information a copy of a letter to the Governor of Georgia,” and call your attention to that part informing him that

you will guard the passes into Georgia and cooperate with the force he has called out. You will please act in conformity therewith.”
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>September 10, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXC, ROBERT RAYMOND REID. Governor of Florida. St Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of 22" ultimo,” from S*Augustine. I had before been informed of the successful attack made by the Indians upon Indian Key and of the plunder and destruction of that once flourishing settlement. I had hoped that the cruizers kept upon that coast, at my request, by the Navy Department would have afforded ample protection to the settlements on the Islands, and am grieved to find that these precautions have been unavailing and the Indians been permitted to cross a broad channel of the sea, destroy a flourishing settlement on one of the Keys, and acquire fresh supplies of powder and other munitions of War by plundering the houses and stores; and after accomplishing all this to return to the mainland in safety. It is in vain for the Departments at Washington to provide the means of defence, if the utmost vigilance is not exercised by the Officers who are opposed to so active and enterprising an enemy. I have brought the subject to the notice of the Navy Department and recommended that the Commander of the West India Squadron be instructed to afford immediate protection to Key West and at the same time suggested the expediency of a boat expedition to search for and destroy the means of transportation collected by the Indians and supposed to be concealed within some of the Inlets.
I cordially agree with you that every effort ought to be made to discover and bring to justice the white men who are reported to have accompanied the Indians on their late marauding expedition; although it appears almost incredible that any white men should be so depraved as to aid the Indians in the commission of their savage barbarities.
The troops your Excellency has thought it expedient to call out upon this emergency will be mustered into the service and such portion of them as exceeds the number assigned to the command of Gen.'
Read by the last order to that Officer, a copy of which has been

transmitted to you, will be discharged. In the absence of all legislative provision, the Department does not feel justified in augmenting the Militia force beyond that amount. It is hoped that under so efficient a Commander as General Read, this force will, with the cooperation of the regular troops, prove sufficient for the protection of the district assigned to his command.
I regret to find that your Excellency apprehends the plan adopted by the Department for the prosecution of the war will not prove as efficacious as I had expected; especially as it was intended that it should conform in all its essential particulars to your recommendations.
It is now too late to change it, even if a change were desirable. The reasons for employing Officers of the regular Staff to supply the troops are so cogent that the regulation cannot be dispensed with;
but there is no objection to the employment of Citizens as Surgeons and Assistant Surgeons, whenever the services of Medical Officers are required, on the same terms and in such numbers as is provided for, by the regulations of the regular service. I have, as you request, directed the Quarter Master General to appoint two Officers, one in East and one in Middle Florida to examine the accounts for expenses incurred in the Military service there.
You may rely upon the utmost exertions being made by the War Department to strengthen the force in East Florida—Two entire and fresh Regiments have been, already, ordered there and such other reinforcements are contemplated as will ensure continued and vigorous operations during the next campaign. The Navy Department will, it is presumed, furnish a sufficient number of vessels to cut off such communication as you apprehend to exist along the coast of Florida.
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>MINOR WALKER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:C 28]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 25th Sept’ 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. In compliance with your favour of the 9th June last,” I
waited an opportunity to see M* Leigh Read the present Marshal, of this District, who wrote me that he had qualified as Marshal, whilst in your city, his letter bearing the date the 1st July,” a few days after his return, (which was only a few weeks since.) I endeavoured

to see him on the subject of the expenses of the last Fall term of the courts, as instructed by you, but could not, owing to his having the command of the Troops in this section of country, which calls him off, altogether from this neighborhood—In consequence of which, I
called on his principal Deputy, who informs me, that he is not furnished by the Marshal, with one cent to pay a demand of any sort, I would therefore take it a particular favor, if you would advise me how I
shall be best enabled to obtain the amount due me on the face of my legally admitted Vouchers"—
I am sir, your obt. Ser"
MINOR WALKER—
Formerly General Deputy & acting Marshal in place of—S. H. Duval late Marshal deceased.
HON: LEVI WoODBURY Sec: Try. Wash" City
[Endorsed] with L. Woodbury's Oct. 5*
</docbody>
<dochead>POSTAL SCHEDULES</dochead>
<source>[LC:Tallahassee, The Floridian, Oct. 10, 1840]</source>
<place-time>[September 26, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>Present Mail Arrangement.
Northern Mail:
Due Sundays, Tuesdays & Fridays at 7 P. M.
Departs Mondays, Wednesdays, & Saturdays at 3 A. M.
Closes previous evenings, at 9 P. M.
St. Marks Mail:
Due Tuesday, Thursday & Saturday at 7 P. M.
Departs same days, at 5 A. M.
Closes previous evenings, at 9 P. M
Monticello Mail:
Due Mondays, at 12 M.
Departs same day, at 2 P. M.
Closes at 1% P. M.
Bunker Hill Mail:
Due Mondays, at 6 P. M.
Departs Tuesdays, at 5 A. M.
Closes previous evenings, at 9 P. M.

Thomas Ville Mail:
Due Tuesdays, at 6 P. M.
Departs Wednesdays, at 5 A. M.
Closes previous evenings, at 9 P. M.
Jacksonville Mail:
Due Tuesdays, at 12 M.
Departs Same days, at 2 P. M.
Closes, at 1% P. M.
TALLAHASSEE, Sept. 26, 1840
J. G. SEARCY, P. M.
THIS SCHEDULE
Subject to alteration by the Postmaster General, agreeably to the provision contained in the second section of the contract.
Leave Tallahassee every Tuesday at 6 A.M.
Arrive at Telfair C.H. every Saturday by 6 P.M.
Leave Telfair C.H. every Sunday at 6 A.M.
Arrive at Tallahassee every Friday by 6 P.M.
Leave Tallahassee every Tuesday at 7 A.M.
Arrive at S*Marks by 5 P.M.
Leave S' Marks every Wednesday at 6A. M.
Arrive at Tallahassee by 5 P.M.
Leave Tallahassee every Tuesday at 6A.M.
Arrive at Monticello same day by 6 P.M.
Leave Monticello every Wednesday at 6 A.M.
Arrive at Tallahassee same day by 6 P.M.
[Endorsed] Thomas Heirs Contract entered into May 25th 1833.
T. R. Betton & Alex J. Fisher Securities for the sum allowed to Heir for carrying the mail $970==
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GEORGE L. PHILLIPS</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>October 3d 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>GEORGE L. PHILLIPS Esquire St Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 14" ultimo,”
representing the sufferings of the citizens of St Augustine in consequence of their limited means of protecting themselves against the traiterous designs of some of her coloured population, and from other causes—informing the department also that you were engaged in raising a company for the protection of the City and its precincts, * NA(WD, SW Reg. of Lets. Recd.). The original letter is missing.

and asking that it may be received into the United States service for that purpose.
I beg leave to assure you, in reply, that the department has every disposition to afford all the protection in its power to the citizens of St Augustine, but it would not be authorized to act on an individual application. It is necessary that it should come from the properly constituted authorities and Guardians of the City, in their official capacities—When this shall be done, the Department will give its immediate and respectful consideration to the subject, although it is believed that the troops which have recently been, and those which will soon be, at St Augustine and its vicinity, will be ample for its protection.”
JRP
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS)</source>
<place-time>No 2. SURVEYOR GENERALS OFFICE October 13" 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. Your letter of the 13" of August last * with Statement marked H is before me, in which you consider that so long a period has elapsed without any contracts for my estimates of last year that you advise a further reduction of my contracts to one half the available amount of the appropriation intended for this Office and the residue reserved for future instructions as taken into the account of estimates for the Service of 1841—You then reiterate your instructions of the 5" of August * and expect me to comply strictly with its tenor on the subject of short contracts—On the subject of the first head I beg leave to remark that the period most suitable for entering into contract for the appropriations of the last Congress would have been on the 1"
of this Month running into the next year for their completion as will more fully appear by refering to a previous letter of even date with this (N°1)” and which course has from the necessity of climate been almost uniformly practiced–On the subject of the 2" head, you will find my opinions fully expressed in the letter refered to and a modification requested so far as this District is interested—On the last subject touched upon in your letter to which this is an answer I would respectfully state from the recent murders committed in the East by the

Indians at or near to the region of Country, where your letters of Instructions of date July 27** and August 11* * requires me to have laid down and surveyed several large private claims; that I could not possibly obtain Deputy Surveyors to execute your instructions unless accompanied by a suitable armed force for their protection—A
similar difficulty exists with regard to your instructions of the 29*
of June * relative to a Township of Land granted by Congress to Dr Perrine, to whom I addressed a letter on the 11" July last " and forwarded you a copy thereof under even date. to which I have received no answer—A rumor has just reached me that the Town of Iola on the Appalachicola River has been entirely destroyed by the Indians, and a company of man has just left this place for S* Louis 2% miles N.
West in pursuit of four armed Indians seen there after daylight this Morning—
Under all these circumstances it would appear preposterous in me to attempt at present to make contracts for surveying when the savage foe are prowling around us every where—Your letters of the 27"
July and 11* August before refered to are therefore intended to be herein answered for the present—
I shall await a short time for your answer to my letter of the 10"
Ult° * before sending on my Quarterly account and estimates map &"—
all of which are ready save the report & estimates—
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Y." M* Ob*S*
ROBERT BUTLER Surv' General JAS. WHITCOMB Esq Comm” G.L. Office
[Endorsed] 13* October 1840 N° 2. To the Comm G. L. Office Recd Oct 26th 1840 Tallahassee 13 Oct. 1840 R. Butler S.G. Ack.
the receipt of the letter of 13. Aug. last with Statement H, rel, to contracts—re-iterating instructions of 5 Aug last,—States that the period most suitable for entering into contracts would have been the
1* of this month. States that on account of the recent murders by the Indians at or near the region of country req" by letter of 27 July & 11
Aug to be surveyed he cannot get deputies to undertake the work unless protected by a sufficient armed force under the circumstances thinks it preposterous to attempt making contracts—Awaits an answer to his letter of 10 Ult” before sending on his Quarterly a/c and estimates, maps &c noted on record. S. Answered Jany 26* 1841*
W. T. S.

</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:LS]</source>
<place-time>No 1. Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE Octr 15" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge your circular of the 5" of August last * on the subject of Small contracts—no advances—
prompt returns &"—with a view to subserve the interests of the Government by speedy sales & meet the wishes of purchasers—Your Views in the general are duely appreciated; but I beg leave to call your attention to the fact that in Some of the Surveying districts would be attended with complete failure, at least in the District committed to my charge—The out fit & expenditures incident to each Deputy in Florida, Owing to the peculiarity of the Country—the Scarcity & high price of supplies, the distance generally to be travelled to & fro, added to the fact that from June to October the lives of Man
& horse would be jeopardized in the execution of feild work, hence the necessity of giving contracts for Six months, four of which to be actively engaged in the feild, the residue in going to returning from, & preparing the Work for return to this Office—No additional Stimulant is required by the Deputies in this District for their more “Vigorous exertion” to complet their feild work than those enumerated above, as the hope of remuneration would be cut off under any other than a rigorous execution of their contract No Advances of Public Money are ever made by me to the Deputies—I have often loaned them my own private funds thro' friendly regards, without interest or other remuneration, to aid them when their means have proved short but with this the Government has nothing to do, as they are in nowise responsible for it I hope these Views will meet your approbation & your circular so far modified with respect to this District—M" Nunes advises me that he answered your circular of 13" August last *
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Your Mo Obdt Sert.
ROBERT BUTLER Surv" General JAMES WHITCOMB Esq Comm” Genl Land Office
[Endorsed] 15* October 1840. N° 1. To the Comm Gen Land Office Rec" Oct 26th 1840 Tallahassee. 15 Oct 1840 R. Butler S.G.
Ack. the receipt of Circular of 5" Aug. last on the subject of small contracts—no advances, prompt returns &c States that he had made no advances to deputies in his Dist out of the public moneys—Hopes that the Circular will be in some respects modified so far as his Dist.

is concerned. Noted on records. Answered Jany. 26 1841."
Changed time from 4 to 6 mos. as recommended W.T.S.
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:LS]</source>
<place-time>No 4. Surveyor Generals Office, TALLAHASSEE Octr 15" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge your circular of 58" Septr last,"
It has been the invariable practice of this Office for many years, to employ no Deputy Surveyors, other than those who come well recommended and who give good security in double the amount of contract assign'd them for the faithful performance of their duty—
This arrangement was made by myself without instructions from the Genl. Land Office department, but has since been incorporated in the general instructions to the different Surveyor Generals throughout the United States—When I shall be again enabled to put the field opperations of this office in general motion by the removal of the Indians, I shall necessarily have to organize a corps of Surveyors, as the period which has intervened since the commencement of the War, has compell'd many valuable Deputies to seek other pursuits for their support—in which event I shall avail myself of the information which your office may be able to afford me, agreeable to the tenor of the circular now acknowledged—
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Mo Obdt. Servt ROBERT BUTLER Surv' General JAMES WHITCOMB Esq. Comm” Gen' Land Office
[Endorsed] 15" October 1840 N° 4. To the Comm Gen L. Office Rec" Oct. 26" 1840 Tallahassee; 15, Oct. 1840. R. Butler S.G. Ack.
the receipt of circular of 58" Sep" last When the Surveys are resumed will have to organize a corps of Surveyors, many valuable deputies having been compelled to seek other pursuits for their support noted on record W.T.S.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO SECRETARY MCCANTS</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>October 19th 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>J. M*CANTS Esquire Secretary of Florida Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 29th ultimo *
advising the department of the capture of a half-breed, who had

- – "-" -- *-ī-, -
been employed by a party of Indians as a spy, and mentioning the strong circumstantial evidences that existed, of a treasonable intercourse between some whites and the Indians—together with other interesting particulars that had been elicited from the Individual captured: and for which I tender you the thanks of the department.”
No doubt Governor Reid and General Read will take all the necessary precautions for the security of the settlements that are threatened, and will use all legal and proper means to prevent the treasonable intercourse which is supposed to exist between the whites and the Indians, and to detect their shameful conduct.
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Atty. Gen.:LS]</source>
<place-time>ATTORNEY GENERALS OFFICE October 21st 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I had the honor to receive your letter of the 34 September *
inclosing certain papers relative to the location approved by the President on the 25" June 1835, of a tract of ten acres of land at the junction of the S" Marks and Waculla rivers pursuant to the 3"
Section of the act of 3" March 1835,” and inquiring whether that location should be laid down as a valid grant, when the road, which then terminated at that point, has been carried beyond it to the site of a town laid out by the Rail Road Company."
The Section of the Act referred to is in these words; “Be it enacted that there shall be and is hereby granted to the said railroad Company, ten acres of land at the junction of the S" Marks and Waculla rivers, (the point where the road terminates,) exclusive of such portions as shall be actually improved by individuals, and now in their occupancy, and also exclusive of such portions as, in the opinion of the President, it may be expedient to preserve for the national defence, or other public use.” In pursuance of this grant, a tract of land of ten acres, was located near the junction of the two rivers;
the location was laid down on the official plat, and being submitted to the President of the United States was on the 25" of June 1835
approved by him in writing, upon the face of the plat. These facts were communicated by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, * McCants referred to a party of Indians in the neighborhood of Madison, waiting for an appointment to make an attack, and noted the presence of two white men with them.

to the Surveyor General at Tallahassee on the 3 July 1835, and he was directed to “take the necessary measures to have that tract laid down upon the township plats.”
From the papers before me it does not appear that any doubt, as to the propriety of this direction being carried into effect, exists on the part of the General Land Office, or of the grantees, or of the Department, but that it has arisen with the Surveyor General at Tallahassee, from the fact of the railroad having been since carried beyond the point of junction, while the clause in the act appears to regard that as “the point where the road terminates.”
I am of opinion that it was not the intention of Congress that the termination of the road at that place should be a condition of the grant;
or that the grant was to be forfeited upon the railroad being carried beyond it. There is nothing in the language or object of the law from which such an inference can properly be drawn. The clause cited is merely descriptive of the place, and, with that object, had reference to a fact which existed at the time the act was passed, and afforded the most ready and natural designation. I am also of opinion that the tract of land in question having been located more than five years since; the President of the United States having approved that location; and the General Land Office having acted definitively upon such approval and location—it ought to be laid down without further delay as a valid grant.
The papers sent me are herewith returned. very respectfully yours H. D. GILPIN
THE HONORABLE LEVI WOODBURRY Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Carry this into effect A 129 Oct 28 Hartley THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR REID
<source>[NA:WD, SW Unofficial Lets. Sent, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON October 23d 1840</place-time>
HIS EXCELLENCY ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida St Augustine Florida DEAR SIR, I received yesterday a letter from General Read,”
a copy of which accompanies this,” which gives me great uneasiness

- - - - --~~~~- - - - --~s as I perceive the whole of Middle Florida, instead of being effectually protected as I had every reason to expect from my arrangements, is left exposed to be invaded and devastated by the Indians. When General Read was here the plan he was lately pursuing for the defence of his district was discussed and adopted, and I could not have supposed that by making you the medium of calling out the troops the operations thus determined upon would have been interrupted.
It is impossible, my dear Sir, that a general can have sufficient authority over the troops he commands if any other person be empowered to interfere with his orders. After detaining General Read here for several days in order to concert measures with him and agree upon a plan of operations, it would be extremely inconvenient as well as injurious to the interests of the public service to appoint another commander. From your own recommendations, from his high character and from my personal observation, I have reposed great confidence in General Read and believe him fully capable of redeeming his pledge to relieve Middle Florida from the devastations to which it has been so long exposed. But in order to enable him to effect this desirable result he must have the entire disposition of the troops under his command and those called into the service must understand that they are to obey him. The mounted men, at least, must be active troops ready to march whenever and wherever ordered and not be left to act merely on the defensive. The footmen may be quartered with a view to neighborly defence, but the mounted force must be held ready to pursue or intercept the enemy whenever called upon.
If this description of mounted force cannot be raised and kept up in Florida, I entreat you, my dear Sir, to say so that I may apply without delay to the Governor of Georgia who has lately offered me a brigade of mounted men for the Florida service. So expensive a class of troops for mere neighborly defence unless under the System indicated to General Read, cannot be sanctioned by the President or this department.
I sincerely hope, that the difference which has sprung up between you and the general will be speedily and amicably terminated. I am sure that both of you are actuated only by a desire to promote the public service and to defend the territory from the murderous savages:
but you must not be surprized, that the general's plans to effect that object, emanating as they do from this department should be approved by me in preference to others. They are much the most economical and likely in my opinion to prove much the most efficacious.”
I am, Dear Sir, With esteem and regard Yours truly J. R. POINSETT

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO LEIGH READ</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>October 30, 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL LEIGH READ Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, I am just informed by the Governor of Georgia, that General Nelson has retained in the state service four companies of mounted men under the command of Captains Jernigan, Sweat, Tracey and Clark for the protection of the Georgia frontier. Orders have accordingly been given to muster these companies into the service of the United States, and they will be henceforth attached to your command and be continued in service as long as you may deem their services necessary, either in Georgia or in the neighboring districts of Florida.
JRP
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALTER K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>November 2d 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay Florida.
SIR, I did not receive your letter from Tampa dated on the 7"
of October * until yesterday (Sunday the 1st Instant) and hasten to reply to your suggestion to give the Indians the section of Country designated in General Macomb's treaty * as a measure most likely to stay this uncertain and protracted war. After mature deliberation it appears to me that the President has no right to give any portion of the territory of Florida to the Indians. By a treaty made with them and ratified by the Senate,” they ceded their lands for a valuable consideration to the Government, and this Department cannot sanction any arrangement which, in contravention of the treaty, would retrocede any portion of that purchase. If, however, it should be found utterly impracticable to prevail upon the Indians to emigrate to the new home provided for them in the West, a truce for an indefinite period may be made with them, confining them South of a line of posts to be established from Tampa Bay to New Smyrna, occupying as nearly as may be, the sites of the old posts which it is understood proved to be healthy when formerly occupied.”
It is hoped that the coincidence from which you augur beneficial results will have occurred, and that the delegation of Seminole Chiefs

from Arkansas, will have reached Florida about the same time that your interview with Halick Tustenuggee was to have taken place.
I perceive that Fort King is fixed upon by that Chief as the place of Rendezvous, and I am afraid it may embarrass your operations to have the Indians collected at a spot so far within the line designated above: for these attempts at negotiation must not be suffered to interrupt hostilities against the other bands. It is believed the probable success of your pacific policy will depend upon the vigor of your operations in the field—You had better therefore, at once fix upon some point on the proposed line from Tampa to Fort Mellon "
inclusive for the Indians to assemble, assuring them of their safety South of it; but sending out detachments to scour the country to the North, and urging the Officers to the utmost diligence and activity in discovering and pursuing the enemy.
In negotiating with these Chiefs you will use your utmost endeavors to persuade them to emigrate, and you may offer what you may believe to be suitable inducements: for I do not entertain a doubt of the favorable action of Congress on an application to redeem a pledge given by the Executive under such circumstances.”
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR REID</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>November 4h 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EX: ROBERT RAYMOND REID Governor of Florida St Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I have just received a letter from Brigadier General Read, commanding the Brigade of Militia raised for the protection of Middle Florida,” transmitting a communication addressed to him by your Excellency on the 3d of October last." Although I am sorry to find by these letters that there exists a difference of views and opinions between you and the General entrusted with the defence of that portion of the Territory, I am pleased to perceive by the concluding paragraphs of the letter to General Read, that Your Excellency is perfectly willing to relinquish the authority vested in you by the department in relation to the Officers, and to the Organization of his Brigade. With this understanding, and reflecting on the serious injury to the public service which must result from any contrariety

of opinion on these important measures, as well as from a divided responsibility, I have, with the approbation of the President, thought it advisable to vest in Brigadier General Read, the sole authority over all matters relating to the Florida Militia Brigade in the United States Service.
JRP
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO LEIGH READ</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>November 4th 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL LEIGH READ Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 19th ultimo," transmitting a copy of a communication from His Excellency the Governor of Florida to you of the 3d of that month.” I regret to perceive by these letters that a contrariety of views and opinions exists between you and His Excellency in relation to the Officers to be appointed to, and the organization of your Brigade.
Finding from the concluding paragraphs of His Excellency's letter that he is willing the authority placed in his hands by this department in relation to the Officers of your Brigade, and to its organization, should be withdrawn from him and be vested in you, I have, after mature deliberation, and with the approbation of the President, resolved to follow that course, and by this days mail shall communicate this decision to Governor Reid.” You are accordingly hereby vested with the necessary power and authority in addition to that already conferred upon you, to select the Officers which are to constitute the force you have been appointed to command, and Captain Casey will be instructed to obey your orders in this particular so far as they are conformable to the existing laws, and to the instructions with which you have been furnished with regard to the organization of your Brigade, and the number and description of the troops.
The department relies upon your judgment and discretion not to disturb the existing arrangements made by His Excellency the Governor, under the authority previously conferred on him, except in cases where the interests of the public service, and the efficiency of your command may require a change.
The Quarter Master General informs me that, at your request, Captain Myers has been directed to report to you for the duties of that branch of the service, and I trust that in future you will experience no further difficulty, and be enabled to realize your hopes, and drive

the Indians out of Middle Florida. It has been reported to me lately that two Negroes have been taken from Colonel Gamble's plantation by the Indians which shows that neighborhood not to have been as vigilently guarded as I had hoped it would be. I beg that the posts there formerly occupied by the Regulars may be reestablished and kept up, and efficient protection afforded to those plantations which have not been abandoned by their Proprietors. While we are laboring to inspire confidence in the Settlers, and to induce them to return to their farms and plantations, and maintain themselves there under a Military organization, it would be highly injurious and impolitic to suffer the Indians to plunder those which have been hitherto occupied.
General Armistead has informed the Department that he has opened negotiations with some of the Chiefs of the Seminoles, and a delegation of the tribe from the West will, it is presumed, have arrived in Florida at the same time—It is not intended by these negotiations for the peaceful emigration of the Indians, to interrupt the progress of hostilities. General Armistead has been instructed to continue his operations in the field North of a line to be drawn from Tampa to New Smyrna—and even to urge them with greater vigor than ever. It is believed that the success of the negotiations will depend very much upon the activity of the operations in the field, and I beg that you will act accordingly within the district under your command.
JRP
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>November 10 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Fort King via Garey's Ferry, Florida.
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 23d and 26th ultimo,” and am pleased to learn that the Indians remain steady in their intention to treat with you. Although in my communication of the 2d instant " I expressed an apprehension that Fort King was too far North to be desirable as a place of negotiation, I did not mean to interdict your assembling the Indians there if you judge it expedient to do so. In that event the only change required in the instructions is, that the forces under your command should operate North of Fort King until the negotiations are concluded.
With regard to the proposal to despatch a delegation of the Seminole Chiefs to the seat of Government if you are not engaged too far in the project, I beg you will suspend it altogether. The President thinks

that such a mission would not tend to hasten the termination of the negotiation: but on the contrary, would occasion great delay, and might hazard its entire failure.
The Militia you speak of, cannot be disbanded until the territory is pacified, and the peaceable intentions of the Indians positively ascertained."
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 303: LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs. Army of Florida FORT KING Nov'r 10th 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to report my arrival at this post on the 6*
inst. The Seminole delegation from Arkansaw accompanied me from Tampa, and is now here.
Tiger Tail has come in with some of his warriors and held a talk with the delegation—Halick-Tustenuggee with one hundred and four warriors is a few miles distant, being detained by sickness. Should he not come in this evening I shall visit his camp to morrow.
Some of the hostiles have declared their willingness and desire to go to Arkansaw, in consequence of the representations of their brethren from that country, and the negotiation at this moment wears a favorable aspect.
I am Sir, Very Respectfully Your ob" Serv"
W K ARMISTEAD Brig. General Comdr Army of Florida ADJ" GENERAL U.S. ARMY Washington.
[Endorsed] 303 Army of Florida Fort King Novr. 10. 1840 W.K.
Armistead Brig. Gen Com" Rep" his arrival—Tiger-tail with some of his warriors arrived—Halick-Tustenuggee with 104 warriors expected to morrow Respectfully submitted—R. Jones A G Nov. 17.
1840
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>November 12th 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W K. ARMISTEAD Commanding Army of the South via Garey's Ferry, Florida.
SIR, The late daring attempts of the Indians to plunder and destroy the frontier settlements, have alarmed us for their safety;" and the

Governor of Florida suggests the expediency of confining the operations of Brigadier General Read to the district of Country North of a line from St Augustine to St Andrews bay, so that the regular forces under your command may approximate the settlements and defend them. I desire to know your opinion of the necessity of this alteration in the boundary of your respective commands at as early a day as you can form it *—
Wild Cat's band appears to be committing frequent depredations in the neighborhood of St Augustine—I should think it very important to check him by a combined movement of several strong Scouting parties. The troops could not be better employed until your negotiations are brought to a close."
JRP
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY CITIZENS OF SAINT AUGUSTINE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:DS]</source>
<place-time>[November 27, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>At a numerous and respectable Meeting of the Democratic citizens of S*Augustine, friendly to the Division of Florida, held at the City Hotel on Friday evening November 27" 1840.—of which General Joseph M. Hernandez was Chairman, and David R Dunham Esq.”
Secretary; the following Resolutions were adopted with enthusiastic acclamation.
Resolved—That as Citizens of the United States, we exult at the late triumph of pure whig principles over power in panoply, as evidence that the “Spirit of '76”, still glows unabated in the hearts of the American people; and is no less formidable to domestic misrule and corruption, than to foreign arrogance and despotism.
Resolved—That the elevation of General William Henry Harrison, that enlightened Statesman and patriot soldier, to the highest office of the Republic, is a reward due to his virtues and illustrious services;
and is an event auspicious to the cause of Liberty and the Union—
affording as it does, a new guarantee to the safety of our domestic institutions.
Resolved—That as Citizens of Florida particularly, we rejoice at

the election of General Harrison to the Presidency, because his character and his past services, are pledges of his future conduct;
That our entire confidence and undivided support, be given to his administration, under whose paternal care, we look to see the best interest of Florida consulted and promoted—The war that has so long preyed upon her vitals, vigorously prosecuted and successfully closed; and as a final and crowning act, called for, both by a regard for her interests and those of her sister states, the admission of the Eastern and Western divisions of the Territory, as twin stars, into the glorious constellation of the Union.
Resolved—That the unprecedented and profane outrage, perpetrated by a frantic faction in this city, of burning in effigy, one of the most time tryed, and distinguished patriots of the country—the man who has since been elevated by the almost unanimous suffrage of his fellow citizens, to the highest office in their gift, is an act repudiated by the citizens of S" Augustine, and attaches disgrace only, to the advisers and perpetrators of the foul deed.
Resolved—That it behooves the friends of the Division of the Territory, to continue on the alert, and alive to the movements of the opponents of this important and desireable measure.
Resolved—That our Delegate in Congress, the Hon: Charles Downing, be requested to introduce into the House of Representatives of the United States, as early in the approaching session as practicable, a Bill, for the Division of Florida, in the manner heretofore urged by the friends of the measure; and to oppose any and every attempt that may be made in Congress, to erect the whole Territory into one state.
Resolved—That a copy of these Resolutions be transmitted to General William Henry Harrison President elect of the United States."
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ Chairman DAVID R DUNHAM Secretary
[Endorsed] Resolutions passed at a meeting of the citizens of S"
Augustine Florida. relative to the Division. Recd. with J. M. Hernandez's Jany. 1" 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>December 3d 1840.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W K. ARMISTEAD Fort King, Florida.
SIR, My directions to retain in Florida the delegation of Seminoles from Arkansas,” until you heard further from the department, orgi-

nated in the desire that full opportunity should be given them to produce a favorable impression upon their countrymen. It is considered important that they should, if practicable, communicate with other bands than those which met you at Fort King: and you will please to afford them every facility for doing so, short of suspending your Military operations.
In carrying on these, I cannot too strongly recommend to you the protection of the country in the neighborhood of the settlements.
If the bulk of your force be withdrawn from that Quarter, the Indians from the Withlacooche and Suwannee might concentrate and commit ravages upon the frontier settlements that are still occupied, which no success in the South could compensate for. It is to be apprehended even that the Indians of the South if hard pressed, may double on their pursuers, and by one of those rapid movements for which they are distinguished, appear unexpectedly on the settled frontier. I
request, therefore, that the Northern division of the Army of the South may be reinforced as much as possible and the Officers urged to the utmost vigilance and activity.
I have directed a copy of the report of the Surgeon at Fort Columbus” to be transmitted to you, by which you will perceive the injurious effects of sending the sick from Florida to the North at this season of the year. They will be retained at the depôts at Tampa, Cedar Keys, Pilatka and St Augustine until the spring.”
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reservation File, Box 112:LS]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT December 24" 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I beg leave to request that the land within Seven Miles of Pilatka on the S" John's, taking that post as a centre, be reserved from Sale for military uses.
Very respectfully Your mo, obed" St J. R. POINSETT
JAMES WHITCOMB Esq.r Commiss Gen Land Office.
[Endorsed] War Dept 24 Dec 1840 Hon J. R. Poinsett Sec Requests that land within seven miles of Pilatka on the S" John's, taking that Post as a Centre be reserved from Sale for milt uses Sent diagram

for designation of the precise lands to be reserved. with Commr" letter to Secy of War of the 23" Jan 1841. W. T. S. Copy furnished Mr Bulee July 17 1850
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd. F 1: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Executive Department—TALLAHASSEE 26th December 1840</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The assurances I have from time to time received from you, respecting the payment of the public Debt and the interest thereon—
and the difficulty of obtaining funds available at the north—have induced me to draw upon you for One thousand Dollars which is the amount of that proportion of interest due on the 1" prox° at the Bank of America. The remainder 3000$—although the Territorial Treasury is empty—I shall endeavor to arrange with the Banks here. Of this Draft you have already been advised by my private letters in which also, I have estimated the sum due within the Territory for pay-
Subsistence—and forage at One Hundred and fifty thousand Dollars over and above the amount of One Hundred Thousand Dollars borrowed by the Territorial Executive. After some consideration I am inclined to think my estimate too limited, and that Two Hundred Thousand Dollars will be required to cover the expenses of the War incurred by the Territorial Government in Middle and East Florida to which must be added the above mentioned One Phetisand Hundred Thousand Dollars borrowed on Territorial Account—forty three thousand Dollars of which were expended by my predecessor the Balance by myself.
I hope some order will be taken respecting the Dogs from Cuba—
as well those already in possession of the U. States Troops as those remaining within the Territory. Something should be done by which the Territory may be paid its expenses in procuring and keeping them.
They have been used and sometimes very efficiently—for the benefit of the U States during this War.
I am happy to say that the Agent for liquidating claims has arrived this day—the accounts are I believe all prepared and ready for his investigation. I hope soon to hear, that appropriations have been made to enable you to exonerate the Territorial Government from the pressure of its pecuniary obligations.
I am, Sir, Very respectfully YF Ob S"
ROBERT:RAYMOND:REID
HON. J. R. POINSETT Secretary of War U.S.
[Endorsed] 1 Jany 4 F. 1. Jany 4, 1841. Gov" Reid File—W. D.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>December 31 1840</place-time>
<docbody>BRIG: GENL: W. K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Florida SIR I have received your communication of the 12th instant" and am glad to find that you still entertain hopes of making peace with the Indians of Florida.
At this distance it is difficult for the department of war to frame such instructions as will meet every case: but the following suggest themselves as most expedient for your adoption.
In your negotiations with the Indians you will council with Captain Page of the Army and Major Armstrong of the Indian service if in Florida, and you will proceed according to their advice. In the first place every effort should be made to treat with the Seminoles proper.
The Micasuckies are notoriously treacherous as their conduct in forcing the Seminoles away, who assembled to treat with General Jesup, and in their late abrupt departure from Fort King, has sufficiently proved. It cannot be doubted that the delegation from Arkansas would exercise greater influence over the Seminoles than over any other tribe; and in this particular I beg you will consult their wishes, and suffer them first to communicate with their immediate connections. It is unfortunate that the treacherous Micasuckies were the first to propose to treat as they ought to have been the last, and their late conduct gives you a fair opportunity to place them last in your overtures to treat. Let communications through the western Seminoles be first made to the Seminoles of Florida; next to the Creeks who are in that country; then to Caocoochie's band; and last to the Micasuckies. Although I do not wish your active operations to cease, they ought not to be carried on at the very spot where the negotiators are operating;—you will therefore suffer the delegation to communicate with the Seminoles, and not molest them until they are satisfied that they have no power to influence them, when there is reason to believe they will point out the strongholds of the enemy, if they persist in acting as such. The Seminoles may be assured that if they retire south of the line from New Smyrna to Tampa indicated in my former despatch, they will not be molested, and a short period may be fixed upon for recommencing active and vigorous operations north of that line. The negotiations may then be carried on at Tampa and hostilities in that part of the territory which the Indians are called upon to evacuate and from which they must be driven This plan has the advantage of affording the western Seminoles a fair chance of carrying out their own views, and besides, it is essential that it should

be promptly adopted and steadily pursued, because it is feared that sufficient appropriations will not be made to enable the War Department to keep on foot a sufficient militia force for the protection of the settlements, and the withdrawal of too large a proportion of the regular forces from that frontier to the extreme southern part of the peninsula, might be attended with fatal consequences."
J.R.P.
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLA-
</docbody>
<dochead>TIVE COUNCIL AND OTHERS</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred December 31, 1840]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States the undersigned Members of the Legislative Council, and citizens of the Territory of Florida, Respectfully represents, that, while it is well known to your Honorable body, that this territory is, and has long been the theatre of Indian hostilities, involving the lives and fortunes of your memorialists in danger; so that, scarcely a week has past, for several years, without the news of some fresh murder;
and the efforts of the United States to fulfill the obligations of a paternal government, to a people, whom they accepted with a promise of protection, have totally failed; the common facilities of intercourse, between the seat of their Government, and that, to which they have been taught to look for protection, seem to have been disregarded, in the arrangements of the mail, the only channel of intelligence, between this remote extreme of the Union, and its political center.
A dispatch, however important, in commercial intelligence, which should place your memorialists on a footing with other sections of the Union, arrives here, retarded by the negligence of the Post Master General, or his deputies; by the arrangement of the mail, or of the misconduct of those agents, by whom, they are forwarded; so that a gentleman, who addresses a letter, from Washington, to Tallahassee, will find, that, starting on the same day with his letter, he can reach his destination, several days before its arrival.
By proper arrangements of the mails, a letter should reach Wilmington, in North Carolina, from the City of Washington, when the river Potomac, is not blocked up, by ice, in twenty four hours. Another day, should suffice and does, in fact, suffice to transport a letter, or passenger, from Wilmington, to Brunswic, in Georgia: and from Brunswic to Tallahassee, a distance of 210 Miles, the journey is, now performed, by commodious stages, in less than forty eight hours.

- - -E--- * =
Thus, by a little attention, a public dispatch, from the Executive of the United States, or the representative of this territory in Congress, to the Government here, or to his constituents, which now consumes from nine, to fourteen days, in its tardy transit, between Washington and Tallahassee, might be forwarded between those cities, in less than four days.
Whether, the importance of prompt intelligence to our Merchants, of the ever-varying price, of the staple commodity of this territory, in the foreign market; or the still more momentous consequences, involved in a subsisting war of extermanation, be duly regarded, the prayer of your memorialists that their mail facilities be improved, is worthy, they humbly concieve, of the attention of Congress."
C. H. Wusont. of the Senate Isaiah D. Hart H. W. Braden Senator East Florida–
John G. Gamble James A. Berthelot of the Senate.
Wm P. DuVal W J Mills B. Meacham Senator from East Florida M C Livingston W" Bailey Richard H Long Senator from M. F.
Speaker of the house of Repre- J. Richardson Jr sentatives J McGinnis Jr D M*Rainy H* L. Rutgers Rep. from Leon A M Hobby Jno. Graham Jo" Dowling A. J. Fisher Henry Bond Edwin W Dorsey Wm Wilson Wm. M*Naught Turbutt R. Betton.
T. H. Haynes R. J. Hackley Wm P Craig M. Ledwith George S. Hawkins M. C. Smith President of the Senate.— H. T. Copeland Geo Walker R. G. Wellford Senator from the West Geo. T. Ward

M O Brown Thomas Marr D Austin Jr., & Co D M Sheffield T Hayward & Austin N M Clinton Kerr & Kirksey Tho" P. Randolph
[Endorsed] Florida Legislative Council, and Citizens of the Territory of Florida praying for improvement of mail facilities Dec. 31, 1840
Ref" to the Committee on the Post Office & Post roads”—Downing P.O.P.R.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF CHARLES S. SIBLEY AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys' Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[January 4, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN WAN BUREN, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of CHARLES S. SIBLEY I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” Do appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Middle District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said CHARLES S. SIBLEY
for the term of four years from the 9th day of January 1841* unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L. S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the fourth Day of January, in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America the 65* *
M. WAN BUREN, By the President, JOHN FORSYTH, Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES T. ARCHER TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Resignations:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 8" Jany 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, By today's mail I have forwarded my resignation of the office of US Atty W Dist of Florida” and deem it my duty to you to assign reasons therefor by private communication—
The fees of my office, since the refusal by the Gov' to allow extra compensation in litigated cases, do not amt to Five Hundred dolls per annum and are insufficient for my support—The two counties composing said District are sparsely settled and the business of the Courts therein is very inconsiderable—For these reasons I have yeilded to the persuasion of my friends who strenuously advise me to practise in the Middle District—
Could I have been permitted to attend the Spring Courts in the Western District and still hold my residence in Tallahassee, I should not have offered my resignation at this time but would have gratified my disposition to continue in office at least until the expiration of yr term—But I am satisfied that such a course on my part would very properly meet the disapproval of the authorities at Washington”
I am Sir, very Resp” & c JAMES T ARCHER
To, MARTIN VAN BUREN Pres' U States
|Addressed] His Excy Martin Van Buren Pres" of U States Washington City [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo" Jan 8 1841 Free
[Endorsed] Rec 19 Jan Mr Hill THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>January 9, 1841.</place-time>
BRIG: GEN: W. K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay, via Garey's Ferry.
Florida SIR I have received your letter of the 20" ultimo,” and am much gratified to learn that the Indians continue to come in at the different posts. So long as the plan now being pursued operates successfully, it would be unadvisable to change it. If, contrary to present appearances and our just expectations, any of the tribes should refuse to emigrate and you are compelled to agree to a truce upon the conditions contained in your instructions, you will be careful to give the Indians

no assurances of their being allowed to remain in the country: it will be sufficient to assure them that for the present they may remain south of the line designated without being molested, provided they conduct themselves peaceably.”
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>January 10th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIG: GEN: W. K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay Florida.
SIR I have been informed from a source entitled to credit that an escort of eleven mounted infantry accompanying a wagon from Fort Micanopy to Fort Wacahoota” was attacked by a party of Indians and the commanding officer and several soldiers of the escort killed. The force of this escort was, contrary to my instructions and in opposition to your orders, entirely inefficient, and I think it proper to call your attention once more to the subject.
Officers in command of posts must be required to obey orders, or be brought to a court martial if they violate them on any pretext whatever, whether, as in this case, loss of life and defeat be the consequence of such disobedience or not. Discipline in the field and in presence of the enemy must be enforced.
The circumstances attending this attack render it necessary that the department should state its views in relation to escorts. It appears that the eleven infantry soldiers were mounted,—a circumstance calculated to ensure a disastrous defeat in the event of encountering an enemy. It is not probable that any number of infantry soldiers will be good horsemen, and when mounted, such men will be fully occupied with keeping themselves in the saddle, and taking care of their arms and accoutrements. Indians invariably get the first fire, and, if the soldier is not shot, he is either thrown from the startled animal's back or keeps himself on by throwing away his musket: as appears to have been the case in this and other similar cases. If a sufficient number of men should unexpectedly and providentially retain their seats and their muskets to make battle, they have to dismount exposed to the enemy's fire, and a certain number of the remaining few must be detached to hold the horses while the rest defend the baggage train. This is so obviously wrong that the department positively forbids the continuance of the practice and directs that the horses stationed at the posts to mount infantry sol-

- –- —— "F-- - - -> *-* =
diers for the purpose of escorting trains from post to post be immediately withdrawn, and orders issued that in future Infantry escorts proceed on foot, the wagons accommodating their pace to the march of the soldier 87
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Jany. 11" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Comdg. Army of Florida Tampa Bay SIR; The General-in-Chief directs me to furnish you the enclosed copy of a letter respecting the cutting of timber on the public lands in Florida,” referred by the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of War, and also to send a copy of an order issued by him on the same subject, in 1839.” Your attention is respectfully called to the instructions of the Secretary of War endorsed on the letter referred to, with a view to prevent the practice which has heretofore been forbidden.90
I am sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN BELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Report Book, 2]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT January 18” 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON. JOHN BELL, Char, Com. Ind. Affairs Ho. of Reps.
SIR, Strong representatives having been made to me that a deputation of Seminoles & Creeks from Arkansas might induce their brethren in Florida to lay down their arms, and emigrate to the Western Territory, Capt Armstrong & Page were authorized on 29" May last"
to select and carry with them to Florida a delegation for the purpose mentioned. The latter with twelve chosen individuals has been in Florida for some time, and it is my determination they shall remain so long as there is the least probability of success. There are no means at the disposal of the Department to defray the expenses incident to this effort at pacification. I have lately been advised that some influential individuals in or near S” Augustine might be usefully

employed to the same end, and to request an appropriation of $15,000
to meet the expenses that will be necessarily incurred.”
Very respectfully &c.
J.R.P.
Not rec" from War Dept. proper to be rec" in the proper place.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO T. S. BROWN</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>January 18" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>T. S. BROWN Esq. St: Augustine Florida.
SIR. On your statement that some of the old settlers in Florida, now residing in St: Augustine, from their former relations with the Indians, possess influence over them which they are willing to exert in order to prevail upon them to remove peaceably to their new homes in the west; you are hereby authorized and empowered to select five such persons and proceed with them to head quarters placing yourself in communication with the Commanding General to whom you will present the accompanying letter You and your companions will receive five dollars a day each for the time you are actually so employed "
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>N.M. HIBBARD TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:LS]</source>
<place-time>[January 21, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HONORABLE JOHN FORSYTH
SIR, Yours from the Department of State of the 6" Instant” respecting the publication of the Laws in the Floridian has been received
& will be carefully attended to according to directions. The undersigned is at present the publisher of the Floridian.
respectfully your ob" Serv"
N M HIBBARD
Tallahassee FLORIDA Jan. 21, 1841
[Addressed] For The Honorable John Forsyth Secretary of State Washington City D.C. [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo" Jan 22 1841
Free
[Endorsed] The Floridian accepts, Jany 21, 1841. Rec. 1 Feb”
Mr Hill

---- - - - - * * * --
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>January 23 1841</place-time>
<docbody>R BUTLER Esq. S. G. Tallahassee Flor Ter SIR, I herewith enclose the copy of a letter from Leigh Read,”
Brig. Gen Flor: Brigade to this Office bearing date 26" Ult” requesting the co-operation of this Office in his plans therein explained for protecting the inhabitants of Florida from the hostile Indians, by ordering the survey of the public lands which lie on and near the Suwannee river from the mouth thereof to its junction with the Santa-Fee—for the purpose of enabling him to form settlements in that vicinity. In which he likewise promises Military protection to the persons who may be engaged in the survey, and states that he has made arrangements for Deputies to be employed if this Department shall think it advisable to give the necessary instructions to you.
I have to request that you will confer with Gen' Read if you have not already done so, on the subject of his letter, and if in your opinion the promised protection to the Surveyors will remove the objection of danger from the Indians urged in your late correspondence with this Office as the reason for not undertaking new surveys in Florida, you are hereby authorized to contract for the immediate Survey and subdivision into Sections of the tier of townships which includes the Suwannee River from its junction with the Euchtucknee or Santa-Fee to its mouth (excluding therefrom the townships or parts of townships already surveyed) provided, thatsuitable Deputies can be found willing to undertake the work under all the circumstances at the ordinary prices allowed for surveying in your District, and the expence being small will be borne out of the general appropriation for surveying, the undrawn balance of which included a small amount for such contingencies."
Please to advise this Office when your arrangements are completed and transmit a copy of any contracts which may be made under this instruction.”
I am Sir very respy Your Ob"S"
JA* WHITCOMB Comm.
P.S.. I have this day advised Gen' Read of the course above taken.

</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO LEIGH READ</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets., Bk. 14]</source>
<place-time>G. L. O. Jan 23, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>LEIGH READ Brig. Genl Flor: Brigade Head Quarters Fort Macomb Flor; Ter:
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of 20" Ult,” requesting the Cooperation of this Office in your plans therein explained for protecting the inhabitants of Florida from the hostile Indians by ordering the survey of the public lands or a portion of them which lie on & near the Suwannee river from the mouth thereof to its junction with the Santa Fee, for the purpose of enabling you to form settlements in that vicinity; in which you also promise Military protection to the persons who may be employed in the survey, and state that you have made arrangements for Deputy Surveyors to be employed if this Department shall think it advisable to give the necessary instructions to the Surveyor General.
In reply I have to state, that I have this day transmitted a copy of your letter to the Surveyor General at Tallahassee, requesting him to confer with you on the subject of its contents, and authorizing him to contract for the immediate Survey and subdivision into Sections of the tier of townships which includes the Suwanee river from its junction with the Eutchuckne or Santa-Fee to its mouth (excluding therefrom the townships already surveyed) if in his opinion the promised protection to the Surveyors will remove the objection of danger from the Indians urged in his late correspondence with this Office as the reason for not undertaking new Surveys in Florida, and provided that Deputies can be found to undertake the work under all the circumstances at the ordinary prices allowed for Surveying in his District."
It is deemed inexpedient under present circumstances to extend the Surveys beyond those above indicated which however it is hoped will supply the demand for new lands.”
I am very Respy Your Obt Servt JAS WHITCOMB Commr

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY E. Florida 24. January 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: I have the honor to report, since my last communication”
negotiation has progressed very slowly, a small number of Mick-asuck-ies have come in and gave themselves up for emigration. The deligation sent for one of the hostiles to come in, he did, and returned to invite in Co-a-coo-chee: he went for him but could not find him.
A scouting party under the Command of Major Fauntleroy passed through the Country he occupied and scattered them. The man collected his little band together and sent in five of his warriours to require an escort to go as far as the With-la-coo-che bridge, sixty miles from this place. An escort accordingly went under the command of Colonel Clarke, on his arrival at the bridge the five Indians left the escort to bring their people to join the Troops about the time they were packing up a scouting party from Fort King came up to these people and surrounded them and captured them, two of the number were a short distance off and made their escape, a paper was produced by the head man of this band that I gave him and the scouting party let them go, and they immediately joined the Troops at the bridge and Colonel Clark brought them to this place, thirty three persons ten warriours among them. The reason they required this escort, was, there was a band of Mick-a-suck-ies near them commanded by Cosa Tus-te-Nug-gy and they said he would stop them if they were discovered comeing in with their families to surrender. The escape of those two men will have a bad effect as they will tell all those they see what occurred, after being told they would not be molested and captured afterwards, and they do not know but they were the same Troops that came out to escort them in, neither will they know but all were killed. This is the way I have been working ever since I
came here, when the prospects were the most flattering, all have been prostrated by movements of this kind. If the business had been properly conducted as I have repeatedly urged the General to do, it would have been further advanced two months ago than it is now.
The same case has occurred down at Charlotts Harbor, some of the deligation have been there for a long time and at two different times collected a band together and scouting parties have scattered them.
They are now collecting them a third time, a Steamboat has gone

down there to bring them up if they can collect them. The boat should have returned yesterday, if it does not come to day I shall think something serious prevents as it is not a long distance from Sam Jones. Echo-E-Mathla Chief of the Tallahassees is now at Fort Clinch with forty five of his people he sent for Tigertail to come to him when all are expected here. I think the old Chief is sincere, his nephew (one of the deligation) brought him in and is with him. He sent his wife and children here to remain till he arrived He is expected in a few days with Col Loomis. I have in camp now Eighty three hostiles enrolled for emigration I have advised the General so soon as Echo-E-Mathla arrives with his people to send off a party to New Orleans as Indians get uneasy after being encamped some time no matter how well they are treated I have got a great many in by hireing one hostile to bring in another so I have kept increasing the number in this way, but I have paid out all my own money and am compelled to stop, though if I had money I
could do a great deal in this way. I expected Capt Armstrong on here with money and told the Indians he would surely come; neither the Quartermaster or Paymaster have a dollar and if the Florida War could be closed by producing 4000 Dollars, it could not be raised.
I have done all I could do, I have worked hard but every thing has gone wrong from my first commencement here. It is very important Capt. Armstrong should come here with money or some other agent or the business must stop.
Since writing the above the Steamboat that went to Charlotts Harbor has just arrived with Twenty one Seminoles, Col Loomis has also arrived from Fort Clinch with Echo-E-Mathla and forty five of his people, he has sent runners out for the balance of them, so soon as the runners return he is ready to emigrate, but wishes to notify all his people to come in. Tigertail has not yet arrived but is still at Fort Cross: Echo-E-Mathla has sent him a talk to come in—I am sending out runners to other bands that have not been invited in, when they arrive I will report their success—I have now in Camp about One hundred & fifty hostiles A Steamboat has gone to Key-Biscayne for Thirty Indians captured by Col Harney, they will be here in about six days."
with respect I am your obt servant JoHN PAGE Capt 4* Infty T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD Esq Com. of Indian affairs

[Endorsed] O. IA. Florida P920. Cap"Jno—Page—Tampa Bay 24
Jan' '41 Reporting progress of the negotiation with Seminoles Some have come in & given themselves up for Emig" His prospects have been prostrated by movements of Scouting parties. Has in Camp 150
hostiles.—It is important that a Agent Should Come there with money—&c &c. To be submitted to the Secretary of War. Rec" 10
Feb '41 answ" Feb 10. 1841." The Commissioner will please send Ten Thousand dollars to Cap" Page without delay J. R. P. Feb 10.
1841
</docbody>
<dochead>RECOMMENDATION OF RICHARD K. CALL FOR APPOINTMENT AS GOVERNOR</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:DS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee Florida SENATE CHAMBER Jany 25" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>TOW" HENRY HARRISON President of the United States.
We the undersigned Senators of the Legislative council of Florida, feel it a duty we owe to our country and constituents to request the reappointment of Richard K. Call as Governor of this Territory "
We believe that Genl. Call was removed without just cause and by party intregue and management: His devotion to the interest of Florida, his great personal sacrifices made in defending our citizens from the dareing attacks of our savage foe, his untireing energy and watchful gardeanship over every portion of this distressed and bleeding country surely is intitled to the consideration of your Excellency.
The attempt to disgrace a meritorious and valuable officer, by removing him, from a high and responsible Station—without notice or, opportunity to defend himself, is under a government like ours unjust and tyranical The veriest criminal, cannot be punished by our constitution &
laws, without indictment and trial by Jury. and shall an officer of merit and character, be dismissed without even being notified of the cause or that any charge was prefered against him The administration that has not the justice and firmness to inform its officers the cause and reason of their removal, proclaims to the

nation by their silence & secrecy, that it is ashamed to avow to the public the motives of its action"
Wm P. DUVAL President of the Senate Wm H. BROCKENBROUGH
MADISON C LIVINGSTON
D. G. M*LEAN
Wm F ENGLISH
[Endorsed] Gov. of Florida Call R. K. recom” 1841 Ent" Florida D. S. Rec" 17 April JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>26 Jan” 1841 R. BUTLER Esq S. G. Florida Tallahassee SIR, In accordance with the recommendation & explanations contained in your communications of the 13" of Oct last * (Nos 1 & 2)</place-time>
in reference to the time of four months prescribed in my instructions of the 5" August, last," as the maximum to be allowed in the Surveying Contracts for their completion, said instructions for your District are hereby modified to six months instead of four.
The reasons offered in your letter for not undertaking the new surveys authorized in August last are considered satisfactory and were duly noted at the time of the reception of your letter.
I am very resp? Your Ob"S"
JA* WHITCOMB Comm

</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 21:LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs: Army of Florida TAMPA. Jan' 26" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to inform you that I have now within the chain of Sentinals at this post, one hundred and fifty Indians, Ten of that number are of the Mickasukie, and the balance, of the Tallahassee tribe This I view in a favorable light, as their principal chief Echo-emathla is with them, and they have stated that their object in coming in, is, for the purpose of emigrating. Runners of the Mickasukie tribe have been sent out from Forts Clinch and N° 4, who have reported that they could bring in fifty or sixty of their band; they are daily expected here—Should this result prove favorable, it will be a leading feature in terminating this war, particularly as it is combined with the arrival (yesterday) of a party of Seminoles from Pease Creek under charge of my Aide-de-Camp. Lt. L. A.
Armistead 6* Infy."
It is much to be feared that it will take some time before any others in that portion of the country will be induced to come in, notwithstanding every exertion on my part has been made to induce them to do so; but I shall still continue to negotiate, with hopes of success.
So far as it relates to the Tallahassees appearances are favorable, provided no disappointment occurs from the promises and stipulations which I have made them, and which I trust will be complied with on the part of the government. These stipulations were detailed in my communication to the department on the 16” Inst.;" and I
am convinced that had money been furnished me at an early period, this war would have been terminated, as these people have but little faith in promises.
I have just concluded a talk with Echo-emathla the Chief of the Tallahassees who says the remainder of his people will be in, in two or three weeks—many of them are in Middle Florida. He has sent runners out to them with a talk, which will no doubt induce them to meet him at this post in twenty days.
I have despatched in a Steam Boat my Asst. Adjt. Gen'l to Key Biscayne, to conduct to this post the thirty two Indians captured by Lt. Col. Harney in the everglades. On their arrival I shall ship

them and those now here, making on the whole One hundred and eighty, for their new homes in Arkansas on the 15" proximo.
Enclosed I transmit reports from L* Col. Clark and L' Col. Loomis.”
I am Sir Very Respy Your ob’t Serv't W. K. ARMISTEAD Brig. General Commd." Army of Florida To/ THE HONBLE THE SECY OF WAR Washington
[Endorsed] 21 Tampa 26. Jay. 1841 Brig. Gl. Armistead U.S. A
Reports 150 Indians within the chain of Sentinels of the Mickasukie.
and Tallahassee tribes—others are expected—Refers to his letter for the means necessary to carry out his arrangements with the Indians.
On the arrival of those captured by Col. Harney shall ship 180 for their new homes—Encloses the Reports of Col" Loomis & Clarke Feby. 10 1841 * Respectfully submitted—R. Jones read & noted by the Secy of War [Copy sent by Secy of War Feby 10, to Comtees of Ways and Means, and Military Affairs H of R.]"
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN MCKINLAY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS]</source>
<place-time>PENSACOLA, Jan. 26" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON JOHN FORSYTH Secy of State Sir Your letter notifying me of the Selection of the Pensacola Gazette for the publication of the Laws of the United States has been received," in reply, to it I have to say, I accept and Shall endeavor to comply all the requisitions contained in your letter. I
return to you my thanks for the selection you have been pleased to make of the paper under my charge."
I am Sir with great respect Your ob" Sev"
JOHN M*KINLAY
[Addressed] Department of State Washington D.C. [Postmarked]
Pensacola Flor. Jan 27 Free
[Endorsed] Pensacola Gazette accepts, Jany 26, 1841. Rec. 13
Feby Mr Hill

EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL APPOINT-
MENT
[FSL:Terr. Gov.rs. Let. Bk.:M 16-)
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE Jan 27* 1841
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA—
I respectfully Nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names, and request the consent of the of the Legislature thereto, Robert J. Hackley to be Auctioneer for Leon County William H. Johnson and Henry J. Wiggens to be Justices of the Peace for the County of Escambia.”
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 30:LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs. Army of Florida TAMPA Jany. 30” 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I have the honor to inform you. that I have just received information from Fort Clinch of the arrival at that post of Seventy two Indians, (and the daily expectation of others,) who have come in for the purpose of emigrating to Arkansas, this number consists of various tribes, who have inhabited Middle Florida; this result is most favorable. An Officer will this day be dispatched in a Steam Boat to bring them to this place, where many of their friends are awaiting their presence. The breaking up of the different bands, may in a short time induce those who still resist to follow their friends example, of which I feel confident, with the exception of the small parties of the Seminoles residing in the Southern Section of the Territory, these people still persist in remaining out.
I have again sent out Six of the delegation with a part of the 8"
Reg' to see if they could again negotiate with the remnant of their people, which I think it most probable they will effect when they understand the other bands are now here with their families.
All circumstances combined, I trust will lead to a favorable result."
I am Sir Very Respy Your ob’t Serv't W KARMISTEAD Brig. General Comds Army of Florida THE HONBLE THE SECT OF WAR Washington

[Endorsed] 30 Head Qrs: Tampa 30 Jany: 1841 Brig: G Armistead US. A Reports the arrival at Fort Clinch of Seventy two Indians and his hopes of the happy result. Respy sub: L Thomas A. A. G.
Ack" Feby 20. Feby: 20. 1841 "
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>February 1, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIG: GEN: W. K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay, via Garey's Ferry, Florida.
SIR. The intelligence which has been received of the success attending the scouting parties of Lieut: Colonel Harney and Major Childs in the everglades and along the eastern coast of Florida is highly gratifying and you will be pleased to signify to those active and enterprising commanders and to the officers and men who served under them, the approbation of the President and of this department, of the zeal perseverance and gallantry they have evinced on these occasions.”
I hope my late orders will not have induced you to put a stop to these expeditions along the eastern coast and among the islands in the everglades. The desperate character of the Spanish Indians and of those marauders who prowl along that coast seeking the destruction of the unfortunate men who may be wrecked or cast ashore there, renders it very desirable that they should be driven in or destroyed.
Operations against them would not affect the movements of those Indians who are disposed to come in to Tampa, and I think it all important that the everglades and coasts should be thoroughly secured.
The circumstances of the Florida contest are so much changed since my instructions to make a truce if nothing better could be done, leaving to the Indians the country south of a line drawn from Tampa to New Smyrna for an indefinite period, that I have determined to withdraw that discretionary authority. From the prudence and zeal which you have heretofore manifested in all your operations and negotiations with the Indians, the department entertains well grounded hopes that you will be able to bring the war to a close upon the terms required by the treaty, and by the interests and feelings of the people of Florida. The department never contemplated leaving the Indians for any period of time in possession of any portion of the Territory;

but expected after they had remained quiet a short time to have been able to approach them more readily and persuade them to remove.
At present it would be unjust and impolitic to allow better terms to those few who obstinately refuse to surrender than to those who have voluntarily presented themselves for removal.”
J.R.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY E. F. 1st February 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
31st December with a talk and twelve medals for the deligation”
I delivered the talk to them and presented the medals in the name of their Great Father with the proper explanations, No-co-se-o-hola addressed the crowd, and said they the deligation were once hostile but; saw the evil of their situation, came in and emigrated, and their Great Father had given them a good Country and all he promised them. He held up a medal and said, this shews in what manner we stand with our Great Father: and those who are now hostile and are disposed to come in, will be looked upon in the same light and treated in the same manner as we are treated. I was sent here by our Great Father to prevail on our Brothers to lay down their arms and surrender themselves for emigration, some have thought proper to take our talk, and we hope all will do the same So long as we can be useful we will, take our Great Father's talk and remain here as he requests &c Since my last report Seventy two Mick-a-Suck-ies and Tallahassies have come in at Fort Clinch and are expected here in a few days, I
have Several runners out with the deligation among the different bands, and if not interrupted by Scouting parties I hope they will meet with Some Success. Every exertion on my part will be used to promote pacification With great respect I am Sir. Your obt. Servt.
JOHN PAGE Cap'4" Infty T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD Esq Commissioner of Indian Affairs Washington D. C

[Endorsed] O. I. A Florida P 936 Cap" John Page Tampa Bay 1
Feby '41 Has Rec" letter of this Office of 31 Dec—“with a talk & 12
Medals for the delegation” Has delivered them &c Since his last report 72 have come in at Ft Clinch several runners are out with the Delegation. Rec" 22 Feb '41 ans" 23 Feb 1841* M: Berryman.”
</docbody>
<dochead>RECOMMENDATION OF MINOR WALKER AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applics. and Recomds:DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 2, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>We, the undersigned, recommend Maj. Minor Walker, of Leon County, Middle Florida, as a man of integrity and sterling worth, and well qualified to discharge the duties of the Office of Marshal: And in the event of a vacancy in the Said Office, in the Middle District of Florida, we earnestly Solicit for, and recommend him to the Secretary of State, for that Office.
February 2” 1841.
To/ THE SECRETARY OF STATE for the United States Peter W Gautier Jr. Speaker of the house of representatives, Tho Brown Member of Council from Leon County Rob" L. Baker Druggs' Tallahassee Wm P DuVal President of the Senate—
Henry A Nunes Member from Escambia County C. H. Dupont Senator from the Middle District Stockley Sadbury Member Gadsden County W" F English Senator Joseph Elzaurdi Member for Munroe.
C E Bartlett Editor Star of Florida D.E. Bothwell, Clk of Senate W M Gibson Judge County Court Leon County Jas H. Gibson Clk of House of Representat of Florida J F Robinson Secretary of the Senate G.W. Parker Clerk of the Council Lunns Church Member of Council from Madison Co Tom. Peter Chaires Director Union Bank of Fla W" Livingston Jefferson Coy Fla L. Livingston Hickstown E. F. Willisson Attorney at Law, Madison C.H.
Jno W. Poindexter Clerk in the Senate Robt. W. Alston

Hugh T Fisher L S Taylor John M*Dougall Merch" Tallahassee Hy L. Rutgers Teller of the Union Bank, Fla B. C. Lewis Druggist J.D. Parish Merchant A M Hobby Tallahassee Cashier U. Bank Wm P. GOrman— do Thompson & Hagner Attornies at Law R H M Davidson Atty: at Law E. Carrington Cahill Attorney at Law.
HW Braden Atty at Law Robt. W. White Attorney at Law.
Th. H. DuVal Atty at Law Thomas Randall Former Judge of Mid. Dist. Fla J.H. Randolph M.D.
Edwd. Houston Attorney at Law R.C. Allen President of the Court of Appeals M C Livingston Senator from Madison County Richard Harrisson Attorney at Law Tallahassee Caraway Smith Attorney at Law J.H. Hawkins & 4 & 4 & 6
J B Bull Merchant Tallahassee Henry Wade do do do Sam Wilson Merch" Tallahassee T H Austin do P. Kerr Mercht James E. Broome Merchant, Tallahassee James D. Moore do do Wm P DuVal Jr.
N M Martin Merchant Tall"
Thomas Marr clk U Bank of Fla Berry & Dowling Merchants Tallahassee Fl"
Wm H Francis Merch" Tallahassee D. H. Ames Tallahassee Frederick Towle Jeweler John W, Argyle Tallahassee A. B. Clark A. Hopkins R. A. Shine Tallahassee Andrew Scott do Benjn Johnson Jefferson Cty George Anderson d's & 4
Danl Ladd Merch" Port Leon

James S. Bond Jefferson Co Henry Bond Tallahassee Merchant Rob" Lyon do Lyon & Co Port Leon H R McAndrews Geo. O. McMullin & Co Stationers Tallahassee W. W. Waddel M. D.
D. Austin Jr & Co. Jewellers Tallahassee A. G. Hammond Tallahassee K. M. Moore Miccosukee Bryan Croom Tallahassee John G. Parks DO
L. F. Masher L C Pettus Cap" of Stem Caroline George W. Daniel Madison County D F Wilson Tallahassee J R Robinson Tallahassee James N. B. Clark Tallahassee Wm. McNaught Merchant Port Leon Fla—
S. C. McIntyre Tallahassee W H Taylor Tallahassee J. H. G. Lorimer Leon County G. W. Call Tallahassee Leon County.
[Endorsed] recommendation of Minor Walker as Marshall of the Middle District 2"
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.: M*]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE Feb’ 4” 1841
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
1 respectfully Nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their Names and request the Consent of the Legislature thereto- Charles M. Wells Oliver Ohara Alexander Patterson Edward V. Page Asa F. Tift R R Fletcher Auctioneers for Monroe County R. R. Fletcher Justice of the Peace [Monroe County]
John C M"Gehee Judge County Court Madison County

John S Broome Cotisworth L. Caruth Justices of the Peace [Madison County]
William R. Taylor Tax Collector Jefferson County Smith Simpkins Justice of the Peace [Jefferson County]
Joseph Chaires Justice of the Peace Leon County—
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID 20
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>February 5h 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIG: GEN: W. K. ARMISTEAD Commanding &c:&c: Tampa Bay Via Garey's Ferry. Florida SIR I have directed the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to remit to you a sufficient sum of money to enable you to remove the Indians now at Tampa and other posts of the peninsula to their homes in the west, as well those who have been captured as those who have voluntarily surrendered:—this operation to take place with as little delay as possible. I have likewise directed a disbursing agent to report to you and you will please detail an officer of the army to superintend the removal.
Application has been made to Congress to appropriate $100,000
for the purposes signified in your letter to the Adjutant General of the 16" ultimo * and the money shall be remitted to you as soon as the Department is in funds.”
It appears to me that it would be prudent to order that whenever one of your scouting parties captures a band of Indians who signify their intention to come in, they should not be left entirely to their own will, even when furnished with a passport, but be persuaded to accompany the party to Tampa, and if necessary, be coerced to do so.
When there the sooner they are despatched to the West, the better.”
J.R.P.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>February 6* 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON LEVI WOODBURY Secretary of the Treasury SIR, As a measure connected with the defence of Middle Florida against the incursions of the Indians, it is recommended by the officer in command there that the Surveyor General of Florida may be instructed to survey and prepare for sale all the public lands on the Suwannee river. Concurring in the usefulness and expediency of this measure I respectfully ask that it may be done.”
JRP.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WADDY THOMPSON, JR., AND JOHN BELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Repts to Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>February 6* 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON WADDY THOMPSON Jr Chm. Com. of Military Affairs HON JOHN BELL Chm. Com. on Indian Affairs House of Rep"
SIR I have the honor to transmit herewith for the consideration of the Committee on Military Affairs a copy of a communication to the Adjutant General from General Armistead commanding the Army in Florida, asking a remittance of $100.000 to enable him to comply with his promises to the hostile Indians in Florida in the event of their surrendering themselves for emigration. In the present temper of the Indians and from the fact that a number have already come in at the various posts and surrendered their arms, there is reason to hope that General Armisteads' promise will induce them to come in and give themselves up for removal to the West. The course adopted by the General has therefore met the approbation of the department, both as a measure of economy and humanity as the inducement held out by him is calculated to end this protracted contest at much less expense of blood and treasure than to continue the war another month.
The department has however no means under its control applicable to the object, and respectfully recommends that an appropriation of

of the Amount named by General Armistead ($100.000) be asked of Congress for the purpose.”
JRP
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL APPOINT-
MENT
[FSL:Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M 31*]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE Feby 6* 1841
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I Respectfully inferm yet that Nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their Names and request the Consent of the Legislature thereto Banks Meacham Abraham R. Allison Arthur J. Forman Isaac Nathans Marcellus Morgan Daniel M*Daniel Isaac R. Harris M. Wood Phillip Blount John Buie Marcus Gillet to be Justices of the Peace for the County of Gadsden Edward R. Gibson—Justice of the Peace for the County of Leon.
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID”
</docbody>
<dochead>GEORGE W. COLE TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reserv. File, Box 26: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Land Office, E. Fla. S1. AUGUSTINE, Feby 6th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Applications, in some few instances, have been made at this Office, to purchase Lots of Land, near and in a small Town, situated on Amelia Island, in this Territory, called Fernandina; and having been informed upon very good authority, that from its proximity to the Sea Coast, with a perfectly safe and convenient harbour, with a depth of water sufficient for vessels of a large class, it may, for some purposes, be a very important point for the use of the Government, and therefore it ought at present to be withheld from sale—and being in possession of no information from the Department, upon the subject, I therefore desire your instructions thereon, and in the mean time, no entries thereof will be allowed at this Office.
With great respect I have the Honor to be very respectfully your Obt. Servant.
Geo. W. Cole, Receiver The Honor" James Whitcomb Com" Gen. Land Office Washington City, D.C. -

[Endorsed] St Augustine Flor" 6 Feb 1841 The Receiver States that applications in a few instances have been made to purchase lots of land near & in a small Town Called Fernandina on Amelia Island Flor" & States that, as it may be for some purposes a very important point for the use of the Government, recommends that it be witheld for the present from sale—Requests instructions upon the subject—
Amelia Island Copy Submitted to Sec of War. with Commr" letter of 1st May.” W. T. S.* See Comm” letter of 4* June 1841 to Sec of War,” also instructions of same date to Receiver at St Augustine *
and Surr General.” W. T. S. Examine R* 16th Feb. 1841
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 14]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, 8 Feby 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON L. WOODBURY Secy SIR I have the honor to return herewith the communication of the Hon: Secretary of War addressed to you on the 6th instant,”
requesting as a measure connected with the defence of Middle Florida against the incursions of the Indians, that all the public lands on the Suwannee river may be surveyed & prepared for sale, & referred by you to this Office for report.
In reply I herewith transmit a copy of my instructions of 23d Ulto to the Surveyor General ” for the survey of lands in question on a similar request made by Genl Read in a communication to this Office from which it will be seen that the present object of the Secretary of War has been anticipated."
I am Sir With great respt Your Obt St, JAS WHITCOMB Comm

- - - - - * ~ *
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL APPOINT-
MENT
[FSL:Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M40s]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 10th Feby 1841
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully Nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their Names & request the Consent of the Legislative Council thereto Joseph E. Caro Vinson Butler G. G. Patterson to be Notaries Public for the County of Escambia–
Taskil M. Caskill W* J. Kelly Ja” W. Everest Rich" Vaughan Tho" M Blount Micajah Crupper Luther Taylor Jo" E. Caro to be Justices of the Peace in & for Escambia County—
F Delarua James Gonzalez F. F. Commyns F. E. Delarua Henry Mitchelett Ja" Quinn Peter Papiola to be Auctioneers for Escambia County W" C. Bethel Alexander P. Scott Auctioneers for Dade County Tho" H. Austin to be Treasurer of the Territory John Miller to Be Auditor Pub: Accts Tery Florida William Wiggins Ja" C Pierce John F Webb Dan Gillett Jas Niblack Sam Russell John Clifton Elisha Carter Chas M°Kinney Morgan Prevatt W* Williams Dan Green Wm. Morphus to be Justices of the Peace Colombia County William Foster Chester G Dunham and J. C. Boote Auctioneers for Franklin County Marshal P. Ellis John Gorrie Justices of the Peace [Franklin County]
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID 41
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA: WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>February 11th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>JAMES WHITCOMB Esqr Comm” Gen Land Office SIR, I return the letter of the Surveyor General of Florida, Mr Butler, submitting his views in relation to a survey of a certain portion of the territory of Florida,” and in connexion therewith, have to

express my opinion that the period is fast approaching when the propositions of M" Butler may be carried into effect advantageously *
J R P
</docbody>
<dochead>G. W. CALL TO JOHN J. CRITTENDEN</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Feby 11* 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>HONBle JOHN J. CRITTENDEN
DEAR SIR I take the liberty of troubling you with an account of matters and things in this territory, as they at present exist. The Whig or Harrison party, at the head of which stood Gen' Call and his personal and political friends, carried the elections at the October election, and returned a Whig majority to both branches of the Council. The Whigs were then confident of electing members of their party Speakers in each house which would have been done but for the ambitious views of some persons, who had acted with us in the late elections; I allude now to Colo. Wyatt," and Maj. Ward.”
The one wishing to be Governor and the other delegate to Congress.
Owing to their management, our party was defeated, and M" Gautier *
one of the most abusive, and violent loco foco Editors in Florida was elected Speaker of the Lower House over an old and well tried Whig, one of the most respectable and intelligent men in the territory;
Col° Wyatt & Maj' Ward after dividing the Whig party, and defeating Gen' Brown * for Speaker purchased the Whig press—and had strong recommendations made thro the columns of the Star, of Col° Wyatt for Governor of Florida and Maj' Ward for delegate.
The recommendations are believed in fact are known to be written by Wyatt and Ward themselves—and intended for effect at Washington, with the Whig Administration, and with the people of this territory—Wyatt has left for Washington, with a recommendation for himself signed by many of the loco foco members of the Council, 

and some few Whigs citizens of the territory—when you see Wyatt, if you should see him, you will be convinced of his unfitness for the high office he solicits. He is in short, a perfect black guard; having nothing to recommend him. There is not a respectable man in the territory independent of selfish or interested motives, who could or would say that he thought Wyatt either qualified for the office, or that he would not be the most unpopular appointment which could be made Let Gen' Harrison give us, who he will for governor, except this man, even the present incumbent unprincipled and imbecile as he is; would be better than Wyatt.
As regards Gen' Call you are aware of the unnecessary and unjustifiable, manner in which he was removed from office. His removal, had great influence in changing the politics of Georgia, and rallied the Whigs, in Florida. and his reappointment to office would give more general satisfaction to the people of Florida than any other which could be made. The people of respectability, and the old Citizens desire his appointment much more than he does. They think the office due to him, for his long services, and his persecutions;
for the part he took in their defense.
It would be gratifying to Gen'Call to have the office tendered to him; and for Gen' Harrison to place him in that office from which, he was taken by M. Vanburen. But of the propriety of his reappointment you are a better judge than myself.
My family are well. I am doing well in my profession, making more money than I have ever made by the practice—I have read with much pleasure your late speech in the Senate on the preemption Bill. I think you are the first Senator who ever made Benton *
Quail, before him or compliment him afterwards. Permit me to say I think your speech one of the best ever delivered in that Body.”
Lucinda joins me in kind remembrances to you & your family Very Respectfully your friend & obedt. Servt—
G. W. CALL
[Addressed] Honb" John. J. Crittenden U. S. Senate Washington City [Postmarked] Tallahassee Fl Feb 13 Free
[Endorsed] Gov. of Florida Wyatt objected to—Call recom" 1841
Entd

EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL:Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M*]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 13* Feb 1841
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully Nominate the following persons for the offices opposite their Names & request the consent of the Legislative Council thereto.
W" O Andrews Michael Garrason Abraham Geiger Henry Merry John G. Tiner Justices of the Peace Alachua County Tho" J. Prevatt Auctioneer [Alachua County]
Sam C. Bellamy—Edward W Peyton Josiah Daniel Peter Simmons Isaac Jackson Joseph Irvin Rufus Ballard Button Barnelly Oliver Williams W* M*Nieley Justices of the Peace Jackson County John T. Myrick and Linn Griffin Auctioneer [Jackson County]
Robert Heir Auctioneer Leon County ROBERT: RAYMOND REID *
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from GLO to ST:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE Feb. 15th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the letter of the Secretary of the Navy to you dated 13" Inst,” (enclosing a copy of a letter to him from Samuel Grice) which was referred to this office for report.—The Secretary of the Navy desires to be informed, “whether under the preemption laws, settlers on lands not yet reserved derive a right from their inchoate title to cut and sell timber”
and suggests that if his department were furnished with lists &
plats of the reservations for live-oak purposes its business with respect to live-oak lands would be greatly facilitated—
In reply, I have to state that this office is not aware of any law, giving any person a right to cut and sell any timber on public land.
The lists & plats spoken of, are in the course of preparation, and will be furnished as soon as practicable, the informal communications between this office and the Navy Department having sometime since suggested the propriety of preparing the documents alluded to, and
50a See ante, p. 20, n.

which the press of business has alone prevented this office from having completed ere this time.
The communications from the Secretary of the Navy with its enclosure, is herewith returned.”—
I am, with much respect Your obd Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB, Comm”
To HON. L. WoODBURY Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Commissioner of G. L. O. Feb’15, 1841 Respecting Maps, plats, &c, as to Live Oak timber land for Secretary of Navy Sent him copy on the 16" Feb 1841 C 468 Feb 16 Hartley Send a copy of this to the Navy Dept with a letter to him—the other docmts should be furnished early as practicable W
</docbody>
<dochead>RICHARD K. CALL TO HENRY A. WISE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications: LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 15" Feby 1841</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR I had anticipated the pleasure of meeting you at Washington on the 4” of March to join in our Countries jubillee on the glorious event of that day. But I am compelled to deny myself that gratification.
My friends, and I believe a very large majority of the people of this territory, are desirous that I should be appointed Governour of Florida. For my own part I have verry litle concern on the subject.
But as I was turned out, most unjusty by M. Van Buren, it would be some what gratifying to my feeling, to be restored to office, by the man who turns him out with the acclamation of the people.
An individual by the name of Wyatt, is an aspirant for this office, and has gone to Washington to procure it. His presumption is only equaled by his ignorance. Congress has been spelt with a K by some, but this fellow spells Rut with a “W--rutte”. This is a fair specimen of his literary acquirements. He has beged letters of recommendation and introduction, from Locofocoes, and from Whigs, who had not firmness to deny his importunities. He will probably endeavour to make your acquaintance, and if you will indulge him for a fiew moment in conversation, you will find him the best witness, to prove his own unfitness and unworthyness of the Station. He professes to have been some twenty years since, the intimate personal friend of Genl Harrison. This is quite impossible. But he has made those more ignorant than himself believe this, and that his influence over the Genl will be unbounded. He has pledged the public patronage

to some extent, and in this way has enlisted some followers, to sign a petition in his behalf.” This man thinks me to be in his way and will therefore endeavour to create a prejudice against me. He will probably represent me to Genl Harrison, as a defaulter to the Government. Permit me therefore if you please, to explain my situation in this particular to you, and request you to see the Genl on the subject.
My accounts as late Governour have been entirely closed with the Government. Some time past I held the office of Rec' of public monies, at this place, for about eleven years. My accounts, were regularly forwarded agreeably to the regulations of the Department, and on leaving the office, I accounted for all the money I had ever recd. My vouchers were sent to the proper department, where they remained for several years without adjustment, and finally without their examination, I was reported as a defaulter for the sum of $43.400.
I repelled this falsehood, and demanded an immediate settlement.
After some delay on their part, my accounts were taken up, and
$34.000 of that sum were passed to my credit. Subsequently $3.000
more were allowed, and while the balance of the account was in progress for a final settlement, I was removed from the office of Governour, for expressing the contempt which I honestly felt for Mr Poinsett, and some of the measures of that Administration. This reason could not be given in justification, when the Senate by resolution, called on the president for information on the subject of my removal, and with a view of creating a false impression against me I was immediately sued for the balance then claimed, ($6.000) After the commencement of the action, some of my vouchers were allowed and the balance now in suit is $4.000 some odd hundred dollars A part of this is for money paid by me on account of the Government, more than ten years since, and another part is for money which was never rec" as I am prepared to prove in court. Against this sum of $4.000 and odd dollars, I have well authenticated vouchers, and ofsetts, to the amount of $17.500. The case stands for trial at the next term of our April Court, and I have no doubt of obtaining a verdict against the Government for 10 or 15.000 dollars at least.
Should Genl Harrison determine to remove the present incumbent, and be disposed to appoint me to the office of Governour, I would respectfully suggest the propriety of postponing all action on the case, untill after the April term of our court, when I shall be fully vindicated from all the false accusations of the late Administration. I desire this to relieve the Genl, as well as myself, from all embarassment.
Should he not be disposed to appoint me, I hope he will at least confer the office on a gentleman, and not on M* W* Wyatt, who has been

recomended by some of the Locofoco party for the purpose of bringing the administration of Genl Harrison into ridicule." Your attention to this subject will confer an obligation on Your Obt sevt R K CALL
HONBL H A WISE
P.S. Col W* M M*Carty can tell you much about this M. Wyatt
[Endorsed] Governor of Florida Gen Call—applies. This letter was referred by Hon H A Wise to the President–
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF ST. JOHNS COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 26 Cong., 2 sess.:DS 57]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 16, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of the United States, and residents of the County of St Johns in East Florida, respectfully represent to your Honorable Bodies, that they have heard, with much surprise and anxiety, of a purposed Treaty with the Seminole Indians, by which is to be ceded to them all that portion of this Territory lying South of a line drawn from Tampa Bay across the peninsula East to New Smyrna: And, under the most fearful apprehensions of the consequences of such a Treaty to themselves, and to the whole country, your memorialists deem it their duty to solicit the interposition, by your Honorable Bodies, of such measures as may avert the impending calamity.
The struggle to subdue these Indians has now lasted more than five years; during which time the country has been desolated, and drenched with blood. To relax under existing circumstances, and grant to them the most desirable portion of East Florida, would, in the opinion of your memorialists, be so palpable and inglorious a recession from the reiterated determination of the Government of the United States, that it could not fail to inspire the Indians with such increased confidence in their own strength, and to delude them into such great contempt for the apparent weakeness of the Government, as would only increase the difficulty of a future acquisition of the ceded Territory.
During those disastrous years, your memorialists have all suffered more or less, either directly or consequently, by the destruction of

property, by the loss of time, by the interruption of their accustomed avocations, and by the embarassments incident to a long state of anxiety and suspense: while some have been reduced from wealth or competency, to poverty or utter ruin. And should the purposed Treaty be consummated it will extinguish the hopes of those who have looked forward to the restoration of peace, and a return to their homes; for after their late sad experience they could feel no security in the vicinity of those frantic and merciless savages, who it is seen, will not remain quiet, but will break out again; when the works at the different Posts, together with the other preperations made to prosecute this war, and which have been attended with such enormous expence, will have to be renewed.
Your Memorialists further represent, that the country which it is intended to grant to the Indians comprises the finest portion of East Florida, and, possessing a climate sufficiently near the tropical temperature to admit of the profitable culture of many productions peculiar to such latitudes, it would, if the Indians were removed, soon be filled with a population capable of contributing much to the commercial independence and wealth of the United States, to the defence of a weak maritime frontier of great extent, and to the protection of a large coasting trade: while, on the other hand, if the Indians should be allowed to occupy it there would be no security for the settlers North of them; they would continue to murder the unfortunate crews, and plunder the property, of the numerous vessels annually wrecked on the coast; and, in the event of a war between the United States and Great Britain—whose relations with this country are now ominous, and whose West Indian possessions are contiguous to Florida—this exposed point of attack, occupied by our savage foes, would offer to our civilized enemy such temptations to incite the former to deeds of outrage as would be almost irresistible even to a less scrupulous Government—a government that is now causing to be disciplined for war the colored population of her American Colonies—a description of troops which might be used in the Southern portion of the Union for the most mischievous purposes.
As a means of terminating the more speedily this expensive and destructive war, of hastening the settlement of the country, and thereby averting the calamities consequent upon a relinquishment of the Southern part of this Peninsula to the Indians, your Memorialists respectfully solicit from your Honorable bodies the favorable consideration of the Senates' Bill, entitled “An Act to provide for the armed occupation of Florida,” ” and that, in addition thereto, your Honorable bodies would pass an Act authorising the President to re-

ceive into the service of the United States at least Ten Thousand Volunteers—such a number of them mounted as may be deemed expedient—to cooperate with the regular Army; or that your Honorable bodies would adopt such other measures as may be considered best suited to effect a termination of the war by the removal of the Indians to their destined homes West of the Mississippi.”
And your Memorialists will ever pray, &c.
A. D. Rogero Jn° J Sullivan Tho" Scott Danl Adems M. S. M'Intyre John Garcia M. de Medicis Wm. Keese Andrew Allen John Stevens John I. M. Willis John Irwin G Deens Edward Jackson Duncan Buckanen John Nobbs G F Lotwich Francis M. Sanchez L. Baley John Simpson George Hill John Dooling Joseph Manusey W Quan Orvill H. Rice Robert Bowler francis Vevea Josiah Blanchard M Raser William Cotes A Storrs henry Sanchez Roswell B Darling R Hagans

Washington M. Ives Louis Gardner Frederick Hartley Sen" Wm. LOftin Calvin Read Myrick Hartley James James W" Hartley Chauncy Hatch Nathaniel Hartley Ja"A D Lawrence William Molpus J." L. Hamilton James Thomson Jno Black M Fitzgerald John D. Sheldon R Dukes Wm Hartley Jar John T. Booer John Hartley J. E. Summerall.
William Campbell
[Endorsed] 26" Cong 2 Sess 3. Memorials from citizens of East Florida remonstrating against the cession of the Southern part of that Territory to the Seminole Indians, and praying that they may be compelled to remove West of the Mississippi river. 1841 Feb. 16.”
Referred to the Com: on Indian Affairs March 1. Disch" " Moved to be discharged 10 Sevier * Vice President "Petition from Citizens of the United States, and residents of the Neighbourhood of St Augustine in the County of St Johns in East Florida, to the Senate
& House of Rep" of the United States.—
[Section 2 of Subscribers to Petition]
Joseph M Hernandez S F Jones J M Hanson John G. Huther Elias Wallen John C. Cleland F Weedon Cha" Robion John Beard J' E B Usina Benj. A. Putnam Ja” P. Dent W H Simmons Jacob G. Soule William A. Forward J. H. Ballmann D. W. Whitehurst Francis Whitaker Jn” Drysdale Christian Boyé
M. H. Tucker F. Bridier Charles M. Fisher K. Goldstein Ch" Haager Joseph Manucy Francis Dustin N. Silovich Bartholo Leonardy Petronilo R. Lopez Wm G DaViS John Lasserre

Ferdinand Lee Bartolo Maestre Peter Knowles J. Forman James Keogh Edw" Doyle Wm P M*Laughlin Joseph Davis Joseph Folk Thomas Doughty Gregorio Bravo David C. Ames Donato Bravo John Pellicer Francis J. Pellicer A G. Noda H. Thomas J Noda Joseph Barbara G. N. Pappy O. F. Cargill Joseph Canovas John Canovas Andrew Canovas Lawrence Grasesky Lawrence Capella Demetrio Salas Geo. Bent J L Palmer B. E. Carr & Co.
A G Swasey Jr Thomas Nelson Wm. B. Maclean Joshua Joyner A. Lopez Ignatio Dartagus Jacob C. Abel I. H. Bronson B. S. Smith Ch" Byrne Venancio Sanchez John J Hedrick Thos T. Russell Cha” E. O'Sullivan Isaac W. Avery John P Zylstra, Jun Gab' W. Perpall Joseph L. Smith W. G. Wharton Jo” Hernandez Geo Bartlett Peter B. Boutan G. Humphreys Samuel Northrop G. I. Zehnbaun Michael Usina Joseph Wilkinson F P Ferreira Manuel Salano D R Dunham N. Henry John Hannan Cristobal Bravo Roque Leonardy James Hurlbert B. Segui Ramon Sanchez Joseph Sanchez Mauricio Sanchez J. R. Evertson Leander Parker James Knowles W" W. Oates Ja" B P Haskins R. H. Pinkham Theo: Flotard Matthew Long Geo. L. Phillips Jn” Lott Phillips Matias Leonardy Celestino Leonardy Juan Leonardy Michael Pappy Charles Schultz Gottfried Foster Joseph Pacetti Alexandre Clemente De Sonè
Ora Howard

Thomas Bellows - Jaime Arnau S. I Segui Esteban Arnau E. A. Allen Francis J Cercopoly O. M. Dorman John A Pellicer Joseph Nelson John Rose John Carreras Lorenzo Gilabert Andres Pacety Francis Pellicer Jaym Forres Bartolo Seguy Richard Carreras Michael de Medicis Joseph Lopes George de Medicis Nato Andreu Francis Genovant Pedro Tenlakely Andres Xymenes
[Endorsed] Petition from Citizens of the United States, and residents of S." Augustine in the County of St Johns in East Florida, to the Senate & House of Rep" of the United States.—
[Section 3 of Subscribers to Petition]
Edwin T Jenckes Faustino Triay Geo: C Acosta Antonio Ponce Jessee Sanders Elisha Brower E B Browne Jarvis Bedell Thos Hall John Embrey D. Cercopoly Leonard E. Curtis T. R. Andreu A. Watson Nicolas Rogero John T. Williams W R Norriss S. Hill Williams Andrew Lopez John L. Williams Joseph Lopez
[Endorsed] Petition from Citizens of the United States, and residents of the North river near S*Augustine in the County of St Johns in East Florida, to the Senate & House of Rep" of the United States.—
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOHN L. WILSON AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (WESTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA: SD, Attys. Perm. Comms, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[February 17, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>MARTIN VAN BUREN, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of JOHN L. WILSON, I have nomi-

nated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Western District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said JOHN L. WILSON, for the term of four years from the 17" day of February, 1841, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission. -
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to L.S. be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 17* Day of February, in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortyone and of the Independence of the United States of America the 65" "
M. VAN BUREN.
By the President, JOHN FORSYTH, Secretary of State.
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL:Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M *]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 17" Feb. 1841
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the offices opposite their names and request the Consent of the Legislative Council thereto John Lee Williams George L. Phillips Peter B Dumas James Riz John Lott Phillips Justices for St. Johns County Raphael D. Fontane Peter P. Dumas John L. Phillips Auctioneers Ja' T. Stanard W" M Hunter Hansford Alford George W.
Smith Justices for Hamilton County Israel M. Stuart Auctioneer [Hamilton County]
Elias Edwards W* M*Kenney Justices for Jefferson County John Dubose Judge of the County Court of the County of Nassau Thomas Stewart Henry Haskill Jus. Peace St: Johns County

Edmund Baggett Angus Gillis Daniel Wilkinson Alexander Turner James Evans Thomas Broxton Neil M*Pherson Justices for Walton County Daniel M*Leod Judge County Court Walton County E. B. Gould Judge County Court St: Johns County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE Feb 19" 1841.
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their name and request the Consent of the Legislature thereto.
John A Cavedo Jackson Tyner Joseph R. Prevatt Sam'
Hutton William Frink Nathan Norton to be Justices of the Peace for Nassau County Henry Lindsey Auctioneer Hillsborough County W" B Lovelace Justice Peace [Hillsborough County]
George E. M"Lellan Judge County Court for the County of Colombia–
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee, FLORIDA Feby 19" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR If you have not lost all recollection of as remote, and unobtrusive, individual as myself, I beg you will use your influence in procuring the appointment of marshal of the Middle district of Florida, for my friend Maj. Minor Walker"—The present incumbent is the last man that Mr Van Buren should have appointed to the Office of marshal, for many reasons 1" because he never was a man of business 2" because he has not capacity, and common sense sufficient to learn his duties 3" He is a man of violent passions and prejudices—
and is incapable of acting with that impartiallity that the office demands—4" He is a professed duelisto and has been engaged in some of the most bloody and savage contests, that ever occured in any country—5" because he has never attended to any of the duties of marshal, because he has been for near a year Genl in command of the Florida Wollunteers & it is not proper that the civil power & the military should be united in the same individual, except in the case of the president and governors of states & Territorys—Last spring Genl Leigh Read was appointed a visitor to West point—Marshall of
66a Charles B. Penrose?

Middle Florida * and Genl. in command of the Florida Wollunteers—
all this was done in my opinion to Obtain Governor Branches influence in North Carolina in Favour of Mr Van Burens election, and Govr.
Branch is the father of Genl. Reads wife—I was delighted that the good old North State, honestly rejected Mr Van Burens claims—the influence of Gov" Branch notwithstanding—we have had the most wortheless and inefficient men appointed to office in our territory;
and I trust that the president elect will let all such retire—and that all those in office who have discharged there duties (and not used the influence of office to control the elections) tho’ they have differed, in opinion as to the person who should be our chief magistrate will be retained Mr Walker was strongly recommended to office at the time of Genl.
Reads appointment, and no doubt he was rejected because he was against the late administration, If you can take an active part in the appointment of Maj'. Walker you will not only gratify myself and his other friends but I assure you his appointment will be highly acceptable to the majority of the people of Middle Florida, I have written to my friend Honb" John J. Crittenden " on this subject also and trust the application may be as successful as I know the man to capable and deserving of the confidence of the administration "
I am with great respect &c Wm P. DUVAL
HON le B. PENROSE
[Addressed] Hon" B. Penrose Washington City [Postmarked]
Quincy Flo T. Feb 22 25
[Endorsed] Florida–Marshal Middle Dist. Walker, Major Minor, Recommended. Feby. 19, 1841. Ent" Marshall Appointed EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL:Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M 70°]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE Feb. 22" 1841.
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names & request the Consent of the Legislature thereto—
John L. Doggett Judge County C" Duval County

Henry Fort Jacob Gutterson John Houston S Jas M'Cormack John Broward L. L. Bennett H R Blanchard Justices of the peace [Duval County] -
John H Gunby Carter Allen Cyrus Bisbee John L. Broward Jackson Phillips Auctioneers for Duval County Timothy Wightman Chester Bisbee W" B. Ross Henry Barnard John M Pons Port Wardens for Jacksonville Duval County Miles Price Tax Collector [Duval County]
William Kersey Justice of the Peace Jefferson County R. G. Willford Auctioneer Leon County—
Theodore Flotard Auctioneer St: Johns County Sam J. Perry Tax Collector Madison County Charles N., Jordan John Alexander & William King Justices Jackson County—
Robert Myers Auctioneer Franklin County Francis Arnou John Richards Sam H. Burgess Horace Ely Justices of Peace Calhoun County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID 71
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA: WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23"]</source>
<place-time>February 26" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W KARMISTEAD Tampa Bay via. Garey's Ferry Florida.
SIR, I acknowledge, with much satisfaction, the receipt of your letters of the 1*** and 14th instant.”
The engagements made by you with the Indians to allow them, on condition of their emigration, certain sums of money and arms, are sanctioned by the Department, as you were advised in a former letter, and Congress has made an appropriation of $100,000,” the amount asked for by you, for that purpose. Of this $25.000. was remitted some days since, and the Secretary of the Treasury will to day be requested to make immediately a further remittance of the same amount. A disbursing Agent having been appointed (Legrand Capers Esqr)" the funds had better be placed in his charge. The law making the appropriation contains a provision that the rifles shall not be

given to the Indians till after their arrival in the country assigned to them West of the Mississippi.
Although I continue of the opinion that it would be better for the service to withdraw three-fourths of the horses from the posts where Infantry is stationed, the order to that effect will not be persisted in by the Department.
Your measures, so far, have been so judicious, and been attended with so much success, a confident hope is entertained that the protracted difficulties in Florida will be speedily and finally terminated.
I cannot too strongly urge upon you to send off the Indians from the territory as promptly as it can possibly be done, though your determination to retain some of the males for necessary purposes is approved."
JRP
EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL
APPOINTMENT
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let Bk.:M "al Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 26" Feb 1841.
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names & request the consent of the Legislature thereto—
Nehemiah Hayden Justice of Peace Calhoun County J. B. Lockey Justice of Peace Washington County Charles Howe Judge County Court Dade County ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE March 3” 1841.
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the offices opposite their Names & request the Consent of the Legislature thereto—
For the Southern district of Florida Charles Howe Stephen R.
Mallory Wm F. English * For the Eastern district John M.
Fontain. John C. Pilot Elias B. Gould For the Middle district Joshua Knowles Dan'M*Raney R. L. Edmonds For the Western district Hiram Manly Walker Anderson Peter W. Gautier Sen"

To be Commissioners under the act entitled “an Act concerning Indian depredations & for other purposes—
A. B. Shehee Justice of the Peace Jefferson County Jas Gibson Sen" Benj C. West Justices of Peace Gadsden County Elijah Sayton Justice of Peace Escambia County John Campbell Auctioneer [Escambia County]
Peter Woodbine Tax Collector [Escambia County]
Ja" F. Trotter Tho" Hayward Kenneth Bunby Hampton Mattox Elijah Johnson T. R. Betton N. W. Walker Benj:
Byrd Jus Peace Leon County—
J. B. Starr Jos Foster Auctioneers Franklin County John Lucus Tho" Halsey Lumber Insp” [Franklin County]
Seth P Lewis Jus Peace [Franklin County]
ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla. Emig.: LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY. E. Florida 3" March 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to report since my last communication,” the prospect of negotiation is very flattering—I have runners out with a talk to the Chiefs of the different bands, several of them have come in and agreed to emigrate. Cosa Tus-te-nug-gy is now here, he is the 2nd Chief of the Mick-a-suck-ies, he has agreed to come in and bring his people; Sam Jones (his head Chief) he has sent for, and told the runner to say to him, he, was determined to bring in his people and emigrate to Arkansis, and that he wished him to join him, that he had seen and talked with the Deligation, and was satisfied with their new Country West. Coo-a-coo-che has agreed to meet some of the deligation on the 4th inst, near Col Worths camp about 45
miles from this; one of the deligation I have sent is, an uncle to Cooa-coo-che, and I feel pretty well assured he will bring him in with his people. The Seminoles proper, have also agreed to come in—the two head men have agreed to meet me at Sirasota in about 10 or 12 days and bring in their people. Echo-E-Math-la Chief of the Tallahassee is now in, with nearly all his people—Tigertail is still out with about

The deligation are all out and exerting themselves, and are equally confident with me of our prospects. This is the first time I have had confidence enough to report favorable, I have enrolled about Three hundred twenty five that are now in, and shall hope to get them started for Arkansas about the 8th inst. I will report to you as usual how I progress with negotiation "
Six persons came on here, with a man by the name of Brown at their head, they came authorized by M Poinsett to report here to aid in negotiation and wished to have an interview with the deligation, but they declined having any thing to do with them, as also the Indians that had come in to emigrate—"The deligation said at once they should be sent away, or, they would ruin every thing that was going on, -all the Indians said at once, they came here to look out for Negroes, and if they were not sent off, the Negroes that were out with the hostiles would prevent them from comeing in, I remonstrated against their remaining here and General Armistead sent them off It was a great error in M* Poinsett appointing and authorizing such people to come here, and surely a want of confidence in those engaged in the negotiation.”
During their stay here, three days, they were making affadavits before a Justice of the peace relative to the negroes now here With respect I am your obt servt.
JoHN PAGE Capt 4th Inftry To THE COMMISSIONER OF INDIAN AFFAIRS Washington City
[Endorsed] Emig. Florida P. 949 Cap" John Page Tampa Bay March 3, 1841 Prospects of negotiation are very flattering Several of the Chiefs have come in & agreed to emigrate—among them, Coosa Tustunnuggee, Second Chief of the Mickasuckies who has sent for Sam Jones—Seminoles proper have also agreed to come in—
Echo Emathla, chief of the Tallahassees in with nearly all his people—
Tigertail still out—Expects to Start 325 for Arkansas on the 8th Six persons have arrived with one Brown, to aid in negotiation—
They were after negroes, & if allowed to remain would have destroyed all prospect of emig" They were sent off by Gen. Armistead Respectfully referred to the Secretary of War—23. March 1841—T.
Hartley Crawford—Rec" Mch 23° 1841 File. See letters of 31
March 1841, to Genl. Armistead, Maj. Clark, and L. G. Capers.”

EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS FOR
TERRITORIAL APPOINTMENT 84
[FSL: Terr. Govrs. Let. Bk.:M *]
Executive Department TALLAHASSEE4" March 1841.
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL OF FLORIDA
I respectfully nominate the following persons for the Offices opposite their names and request the Consent of the Legislature thereto Benj H. Kerr Tax Collector Monroe County Cuyler Jauncey Auc Franklin County Benjamin Gause Jus Peace Leon County Jas L Hart Tax Collector [Leon County]
A. B. Noyes Jus Peace Alachua County ROBERT RAYMOND REID
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 74:LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs. Army of Florida TAMPA March 5" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I have the honor to inform the department that the principal sub-chief of the Mickasuckies, Coosa Tustenuggee left my Head Quarters yesterday to collect his people for emigration. They are to be in by the 20" inst, and it is not doubted that Halick Tustenuggee's band will follow their example. As these leaders have during the war proven themselves among the most implacable of the hostiles, I consider the appearance of Coosa-Tustenuggee and his avowed determination to join the emigrating party as a decided indication of the approaching close of this long & expensive war.
I am now anxiously waiting the funds that have been appropriated to enable me to fulfil my promises with the chiefs and people who have come in—Until they arrive I cannot think of shipping any of the Indians, as all the promises I have made, I expect punctually to fulfill, & this cannot be done until the means are placed at my disposal.
This want of the necessary funds has alone prevented an immediate shipment of those now here. I therefore most respectfully request that the funds should be sent with all possible despatch.” The Indians are becoming restless, and expecting what I have promised, they must not be deceived.

A party of fifty Seminoles will be at Fort Armistead "in a few days.
They broke from their camp, leaving a large party behind, who, declined coming with them. After the peace party had travelled some distance, runners were sent after them to say that the others would join them. The united party with those now in will comprise the entire band of Hospitakee.
Col. Worth has opened a communication with Wild-Cat who is expected at his camp to-morrow. Should he be induced to bring in his people, of which, there is little doubt, Sam Jones will follow, and then there will remain only the scattered Creeks in Middle Florida, & some Seminoles & Spanish Indians in East Florida.”
I am Sir. Very Respy Your obt Servt WKARMISTEAD Brig General Commds Army of Florida To/THE HONBLE THE SECY OF WAR.
[Endorsed] 74 Tampa 5. Mar: 1841 B. G. W. K. Armistead US. A
Reports the coming in of the Indians—Fifty Seminoles to be at Fort Armistead—the remaining at Camp will follow—Col. Worth has opened a commn: with Wild Cat. Sam Jones is expected will follow—
Shall not Ship any till he receives money. A duplicate of this communication was received the 23" of March.” Resp submitted A.G.
Office April 1, 1841 L. Thomas Asst. Adj. Genl April 1–1841
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO THE PRESIDENT BY CITIZENS OF HAZARD AND WICINITY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. re Enquiries and Resol. of Cong.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[March 6, 1841 "]</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EXCY WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
The Memorial of the citizens of Hazard & its vicinity respectfully setteth forth–
That Hazard situated at the mouth of the River Saint John, is a rapidly progressing Town possessing within itself the necessary resources of wealth & enterprise, & occupying the position that it does bids fair at no very distant period to hold a conspicuous place in East Florida—& to become a formidable rival to the many towns &
cities arising in all parts of our prolifick but long neglected Territory-
Your Memorialists would shew that Jacksonville located about Thirty Miles up the S. John's River has been, & is still supported, &

kept alive, by this most disastrous, & disgraceful Seminole War, But now that your Excellency had accepted the office, tendered by an almost unamious suffrage we confidently expect, relying on your distinguished Military talents, that out beloved country will not longer be the theatre of horrid & barbarous massacres,—but the arrogant &
wily savage, who has for so long a time infested & laid waste our fertile fields sparing neither age, sex, or condition, be taught that a General & a Warrior now holds the reins of Government. Jacksonville then must become insignificant—
Your Memorialists would further shew that from the situation of our Town we believe that we are entitled to the Custom House—at present at Jacksonville That situated there it can exercise no influence in checking smuggling—That some of your memorialists are aware of the fact that a vessel freighted with sugar from the West Indies runs into the River & having disposed of part of her cargo, again puts to Sea with impunity—That vessels invariably anchor here—& the establishment of a Port of Entry at this place would enable them to proceed at once to their destined port Palatka. thereby greatly facilitating mercantile operations. That vessels compelled from unfavourable weather or other causes to cross the Bar must either proceed Thirty miles up the River or depart without entering or clearing—
Your Memorialists would respectfully assure your Excellency That in speaking of Jacksonville Your Memorialists are incited not by envious or unfriendly feelings—but on the contrary entertain towards said City & her many highly respectable & worthy citizens—the most sincere sentiments of affection & regard—But facts speak for themselves—Jacksonville has no back country to contribute to her support—& real estate is rapidly decreasing in value-
Having shewn your Excellency That the establishment of a Port of Entry at this place is not advantageous solely to our Town, but that the Interest of the Federal Government requires it & that the general welfare of the Country is thereby promoted, by effectually preventing the Contraband trade. Your Memorialists with confident reliance of the well known liberality & devotion to the public good which in so eminant a degree distinguish your public & private life most respectfully solicit your Sanction to & approval of the removal of the Custom House from Jacksonville & its location at Hazard, &
Your Memorialists would recommend as a suitable person to fill the Office of Collector Mr Henry R. Fort of this place—
Wm G. Christopher Napoleon B Levingston Geo. W. Anthony Schr. Penn James L. Christopher Tho" S. Chase Sch Susan Baker Levin Johnson Henry Moore Henry M Lindsay

R, M, Porter Thomas Youngs jr Andrew Floyd J. L. Belknap Lewis P. Christopher Elias Reynolds Charles Brown John Houston William Neal Walter Furman John L. Ryder Master W* Allen Lewis Christopher Tho" P Howes Master sch Berry Samuel C Houston J. S. Pedrick W" A Houston
[MS. illegible] Wallin John Hebbard Cavalier Weatherby A. M. Andreu Michael Kelly K. B. Gibbs Hartley Crooker James Campbell Frances Bush James Latimer John Floyd Joseph Floyd C Taylor William Simms William Goodwin Sch S Carolina Charles W. Johnson John C. Houston Edward Wright Abraham Allen William H Houston Hezakiah Wolch John Simms Jonathan B. Tichenor James Simms James Jaggers John Johnson John C. Aikley
[Endorsed] Florida 1841 W* G Christopher et al prays to have the Town of Hazard creat" a port of Entry & the Custom house rem"
from Jacksonville Secy of Treasy C. 870 April 3" Rodman ans" Ap'
3rd 91
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>March 11th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W K ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay Florida SIR, The Adjutant General has just laid before me your letter of the 28” ultimo,” stating the impropriety, in the present state of our relations with the Indians in Florida, of permitting T. S. Brown and others associated with him to have interviews with the Indians for the purposes mentioned in the letter to you of the 18th of January last.*
Under the circumstances stated by you the Department approves your course in denying these persons access to the Indians, and

requiring them to leave your head quarters. The authority given to Mr Brown has this day been unconditionally recalled.
You will please furnish the department with any information in your power as to whether it was the purpose of these persons to claim negroes, or that they had any other improper object in view.”
JB.95
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>March 12th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay Florida SIR, The Adjutant General has submitted to me your letter of the
28" ultimo" in which you request instructions relative to the disposition of the negroes who may come in with the Indians.
There can be no claim against the Indians for any negroes except those who may have run away or been captured since the treaty of Payne's Landing. That treaty set apart a certain sum for paying the claims against them for depredations and losses of all kinds. This commuted all such claims for money, and absolved the Indians from liability for and beyond the amount thus stipulated.” No demand can therefore be recognized for any negroes except those lost since the date of the treaty, unless the Indians are willing to give them up voluntarily. All except these must positively be removed with the

Indians to the West unless an arrangement, perfectly satisfactory to them, for their delivery can be made with them by the claimants.
Those of which the Indians have acquired possession since the treaty should be surrendered, unless the effect of this would be to prevent the Indians from coming in and removing. This should by all means be avoided, and it will be better, rather than incur this danger that even the negroes to which the whites have a valid claim should also be removed, and afterwards brought back or be paid for by the United States. No negro should be delivered up under any circumstances unless the claim to him be substantiated by the most satisfactory proof.”
JB.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE DOWNING TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS]</source>
<place-time>March 13, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I beg leave to call your attention to the public printing in Florida—It is now given to three papers—
The Gazette at Pensacola The Floridian at Tallahassee The Herald at St Augustine—
The two last are of the bitterest & most bilingsgate Loco-foco politics—engaged at every weekly issue in the abuse of the party, the president, yourself, & the whole Cabinet—
It will be an outrage to public Sentiment to continue to them the patronage of A Whig Government—
It Should be given to the Sentinel or Star at Tallahassee, & to The News at St Augustine”
resply C DOWNING
HON D. WEBSTER Sec of State
[Endorsed] Florida—Public Printing. The “Sentinel”, or “Star”
at Tallahassee and “News” at St Augustine recommended. by C.
Downing. March 13, 1841. Present publishers The Gazette—at Pensacola The Floridian—at Tallahassee The Herald—at St Augustine The two last objected to.

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla. Emig.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY, East Florida 14 March 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to report since my last communication,”
negotiation has been going on with great success. Cose. Tus-tenug-gy left here a short time since; while here, a war party had a skirmish with a small detachment of soldiers for the purpose of breaking up the negotiation-Cosa, disregarded that, and said, he would bring in his people 81 in number, and at the same time, send runners up to Fort King, there, to hold a talk with He-lick Tus-tenug-gy and bring his people here, also, Cosa appointed a place 35
miles from this on the road, to meet the Waggons and escort, to bring in his people;—Captain Wright started with seven waggons and eighty soldiers and two Indians;–when he arrived at the place appointed by Cosa to come to him, he did not find him—the two Indians went out to Cosa's Camp and found the mounted companies under Capt Kerr had been there and captured him and his people, and carried them to Fort King, also the runners he sent to Fort King with a talk to Helick, notwithstanding they all had passes from General Armistead, expressing the object of their mission—they were confined, also this Cosa, who was the most important chief in the Nation. I was sure if he came, the whole must follow, and he said we must not mind a little party that was trying to break up the Treaty, he would make all come in, after he had got his own people in.
I do not know what effect this unfortunate occurrence will have with this Chief, it is possible he may be reconciled upon explaining
&c—I hope Captain Kerr will not claim it as a victory in surprising a party of Indians on their way here, Cosa had a pasport with him and told Capt Kerr (as he says) he was on his way to meet Captain Wright who was waiting for him but; Capt. Kerr took them to Fort King, instead of bringing them here, and from that point wanted to take them to Pilatka about sixty miles farther off—If this Officer had come ten miles this side of where he captured the Indians, he would have found Capt Wright waiting for them, as Cosa the Chief told him—This is the way the business goes on, and has ever since I
arrived at this place: with this kind of management, it will take twelve months to do, what might be done in two—
A Steam Boat has just arrived from Fort Fanning” with sixty Indians, most of them Mick-a-suck-ies Par-suck-e-ohola (one of the delegation) and two other Indians have been out collecting them for

three weeks in Middle Florida, and others are still comeing in at this place—
I shall hope that my reports will continue to be favourable, I shall persevere so long as there is any hope, and by the end of this month, be able to tell you if we can conquer them by negotiation I do not say, these officers are wrong in captureing these people, but; there is bad management some where, that these occurrences should happen so often, as this is not the first or second time it has happened I find it hard work to go against Wind & tide *
With respect I have the honor to be Sir—your obt Servt.
JOHN PAGE Capt 4" Infty T HARTLY CRAWFORD Esq Com. of Indian affairs Washington City
[Endorsed] Emig. Florida P. 951 Cap" John Page Tampa Bay Mch
14, '41 Since last report, negotiations have been going on successfully—notwithstanding efforts of a war party to prevent—Cosa Tustunnuggee, the most important chief in the nation left with the intention of bringing in his people, 81 in number & of inducing Helick Tustunnuggee to come in also—Cosa on his return, was captured with all his people by Cap" Kerr, and tho’ they had papers from Gen.'
Armistead, were confined at Fort King &c &c There is bad management somewhere. A Steam Boat has just arrived from Fort Fanning with 60 Indians Respectfully referred to the Secretary of War—
T. Hartley Crawford 29, Mar. 41. Rec" Mch 29, 1841 File, See letters of 31 March 1841 to Gen Armistead, Maj. Clark, & L. G.
Capers.”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, QMG Consolidated File: ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office ST AUGUSTINE March 15" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I take the liberty to endorse to you the copy of a communication which I have received containing the proceedings of a meeting of the inhabitants of the North City in St Augustine who it seems have erected “a Small Frame for a Market House” on the Public Grounds in the City at their own individual expense which they are about to complete: they do not as you will observe claim to own the land on which it is to stand, but acknowledge the Soil to be in the United States: and only express the “hope that they may be permitted to occupy it without molestation untill the Government shall have use for it.”—This ground is attached to the Old Fort “St Marks” and is not now needed by the Government for public use; the occupancy

of it, will be a great convenience to the inhabitants of that portion of St Augustine called “The North City”, the building is Small and so constructed that it can at any time be placed on rollers & easily removed: under these circumstances as the right of the Government is fully acknowledged: I would most respectfully recommend the propriety of their being permitted to occupy the ground on which said building stands untill it shall be wanted for public use, they pledging then to remove it, at their own proper cost and charges. For the purpose of preserving and perpetuating their admission as to the right of Soil of the United States I have filed the document of which the enclosed is a copy in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of this District in this City.
With great respect I have the honour to be Sir Your Obt Servt THO DOUGLAS
HON JOHN BELL Secretary of War City of Washington DC
[Endorsed] D 76. 3 Mch 28 March 31. 1841. Quarter Master General. 117. Mr. Thomas Douglas St. Augustine March 15, 1841
See letters on this subject to M' Douglass and Cap. C A Waite, of the
15 April 1841. and letter to Cap. Waite, of May 7:/41 I respectfully recommend that the citizens of S* Augustine be allowed to put a Market House on the public grounds near the fort Should the Commanding officer not object, on the condition that they agree to remove it, or permit the Military Authorities to remove it, whenever the grounds may be required for the public service. Th: S. Jesup Q.M.G. Approved J.B. Rec" March 31. 1841
[Enclosure]
Proceedings of Meeting of Inhabitants of St. Augustine
(Copy) [March 11, 1841]
At a Meeting of the Inhabitants of the “North City” being &
lying within the Corporate limits of the City of St Augustine E.F. held at Mr Abels Store on Thursday afternoon the 11" day of March A D
1841.
On Motion it was: Resolved, That the Secretary of this Meeting do immediately forward a copy of the following letter to Lieut H.W.
Benham of the U.S. Corps of Engineers and also a copy to Thomas Douglass Esqr U.S. District Attorney for the District of East Florida.
North City ST AUGUSTINE E.F. March 11” 1841
TO; THOMAS DOUGLAS Esqr U.S. District Attorney for D.E.F
And to LIEUT H WBENHAM U.S. Corps of Engineers GENTLEMEN The Inhabitants of “North City” St Augustine, have erected a Small Frame for a “Market House” on the “Public Grounds”;

which they are about to complete as a market for the Public convenience of the Inhabitants of the North part of the City of St Augustine.
The parties or inhabitants who have interested themselves to erect
“the Market” at their own individual expense, wish you gentlemen as government officers, to distinctly understand, that they do not claim to own the Land on which it is to Stand but do acknowledge the property of the Soil to be in the Government of the United States:
But they express the hope that for the public convenience of our Citizens, they may be permitted to occupy, without molestation, the Small piece (only a few feet) of ground to be covered by “the Market”
untill the Government shall have use for it.
We are Gentlemen Yr Obdt Servts JACOB C. ABEL
REUBEN H PINKHAM
WILLIAM M SIMONS
Building Committee of the “North City Market House”
True Copy JOHN C CLELAND Secy
[Endorsed] D 76. Book 22. S179—D 117
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM WYATT TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON 15th March 1841</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EX THE PRESIDENT OF THE U STATES
SIR I have most respectfully, in the name of the Whig party of Florida, to protest against the influence of M* Charles Dowing, Late Delegate from that Territory in the removals from, and appointments to office for said Territory M" Dowing was elected by the Van Buren party, and as there has been no exspession of public sentiment in relation to him since that time, He is the Delegate (if one attal) of that party and not of the Whig reform party of Florida The Whig party of that Territory have now in regular nomination Geo. T. Ward Eqr, as there candidate for Delegate to Congress, whilst M. Dowing is known as the candidate, of the eleventh-hour men from the Jackson & Van Burean ranks The Whig party therefore of that Territory who were the first to come forward to the support of your ellevation, have some right to expect to be heard in relation to those appointments, not that this should be inflund, by the same party, that made reform nessary If your Excellency have any doubts of the correctness of the stand I have here taken I beg & request that all removals and appointments may be postponed in Florida until after our election for Delegate, which

will take place on the first monday of May next, when that Territory will have a representive fresh from the people, who will know & faithfully represent there true interest"
all of which is most respectfully submitted for your consideration by your ob Srvt W, WYATT
[Addressed] To His Ex The President of the U Stats Washington City THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>March 16th 1841</place-time>
BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Tampa Bay Florida, via Savannah, Georgia.
SIR, My attention has been called to the importance of the immediate shipment of the Indians from Florida to their new homes as promptly as it can be done as they come in. My views on this subject correspond with those in the letter to you from the Department of the
26th ultimo." I consider it in the highest degree expedient that they should be shipped off with all possible rapidity.”
JB.

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Commissions, E 2]</source>
<place-time>[March 19, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity and Ability of RICHARD K. CALL of Florida I do appoint him Governor in and for the Territory of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers privileges and emoluments thereunto of right appertaining, unto him, the said RICHARD K. CALL, during the pleasure of the president of the United States for the time being and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the United States and no longer.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the Nineteenth day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Sixty fifth.”
W. H. HARRISON.
By the President:
DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 81:LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Qrs. Army of Florida. TAMPA March 21" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a communication from the War Department, dated Feb. 26**
On the 20" inst, Two hundred or more Indians were shipped at this place for their homes in the West. They are principally Tallahassees Recess appointment.

under the chief Echo.emathla: the remainder are Seminoles and Mickasuckies. It gives me great satifaction to state that no force was necessary in the embarkation, all leaving with perfect willingness.
There are now in, here and at Fort Armistead about 150 Indians, which number will probably be swelled in a few days to 250 or 300.
I have succeeded in entirely reassuring Coosa Tustenuggee, whose people 80 in number may soon be expected; also the party of Coacoochee: that Chief himself will be here to morrow. Some of Hospitakees band, have come in to Fort Armistead; Hospitakee with the remainder will ultimately join them."
A runner has been despatched to Sam Jones, who sent word that he would meet one of the delegation on Pease creek, to hear my talk.
I have little doubt that he will soon come in with his people.
Runners have been sent to Middle Florida, to bring in the remnant of the Tallahassees who are still lingering there. This will free that section of country of all the Indians, as the runaway Creeks have left it, and are now east of the Suwannee. I have not yet been able to communicate with them but hope to do so through Halick Tus.tenuggee, when he shall come in. A runner has been sent to this last chief by Coosa Tustenuggee, and I am sanguine that he will eventually conclude to emigrate.”
I am Sir Very Respectfully Your ob" Serv"
W KARMISTEAD Brigr General Commd." Army of Florida THE HONORABLE THE SECRETARY OF WAR Washington
[Endorsed] 81 Tampa 21. Mar: 1841 B. G. W.K. Armistead US. A
Reports receipt of letter from War Depart: 26 feby: The emigration of 200 Indians—150 now at Ft Armistead which will increase from

- –– "-" -->
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Seminole Emig.: LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY E. Florida 22d March 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to report, that about 220 Indians were shipped yesterday for New Orleans, on their way to Arkansas. There are remaining in camp, Eighty five, I did not intend to leave any, but, while I was rallying them to go on board, the General was constantly giving some, permission to stay, he was not aware, if he gave one man permission to remain all his brothers and sisters and their children remain with him—I told him if he did not stop giving permissions, and leave it to me to judge, I could not get off Fifty Indians, without forceing them with the aid of Troops—the General stoped his permissions, and I started them off at once without any difficulty—They were all unwilling to start, but I gave but one talk that was, you have to go; this settled the point, but when they found they could get leave to remain, by going to the General, it destroyed my influence and authority over them and for a short time, some considerable excitement was produced, until the General left the business with me altogether—too many people, acting and directing in a case of this kind is very injurious—there should be but one talk and one action in the business, and they will know what to depend on. I leave tomorrow for Sarasota where I expect to meet 90 or 100, that have come in there, —there are about sixty with Capt Wright at To.
a-choat Ku and others comeing in. Coo-a-coo-chee is expected here in two or three days with Colonel Worth.
Every thing is prospering at this time, and I hope it will continue so without a breach; by the first of April I shall be back here, and will report to you the particulars and the prospects of our success, but;
at this time it is impossible”
With respect I have the honor to be Your Obt Servt.
JOHN PAGE Capt 4* Infty T. H. CRAWFORD Esq Commissioner of Indian Affairs Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Emig" Florida P. 955. Cap" John Page—Tampa Bay—
March 22 1841 Reports the Shipping of about 220 Indians to New Orleans for Arkansas—of 85 remaining in Camp—of his expecting to meet at Sarasota 90 or 100—others are coming in &c Refers, it

is presumed to party that arrive at New Orleans on 29 March—reported by Capers on 4 Apl—entered—See Mr. Crawford—Rec" 3.
April '41 ans" 12 Ap' 1841" Mr Berryman"
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR REID TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Execs. of Terrs.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Territory of Florida Executive Department TALLAHASSEE 24th, March 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Annexed is an Estimate of Furniture, and its prices necessary for the Hall of Representations and Senate Chamber in the New Capitol of the Territory—and I have employed M. Jacobi to furnish the apartments just mentioned provided it shall meet with your approbation.
As to the prices, I am not competent to judge—I have said to him, they will be investigated, and diminished, should it be found proper to make them less.
In relation to the Seats for the President of the Senate and the the Speaker of the House—prices must be much reduced, for the plans originally approved by me, are found since the Building has been erected, not to harmonize with the form and size of the apartments in which they are to be placed.
It is not to be expected that materils and Labor can be procured as cheaply here as at the North—but M Jacobi is an excellent Workman—a Master of his business—and I doubt not will faithfully perform his duty should the work [which it is important to have completed during the coming Summer]" be committed to his care.”
I am Sir, Very respectfully Y Obt ROBERT: RAYMOND: REID
The Hon The Secretary of the Treasury W.C.
No Estimate was made for this—
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Fa March 24/41 R.R. Reid estimate of furniture for the Territory L. file Ref" to Register for Information whether the Gov submitted an estimate in those for the Territory

- –- - - - - - –------- ***-
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WALKER. K. ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>March 25th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD TAMPA BAY FLORIDA
SIR, Your communications of the 7" instant have been received.”
My letter of the 12" instant” will fully advise you of the views of this department with respect to the claims to negroes.
Five thousand dollars more will immediately be remitted to you, which will make in all that has been sent to you the sum of fifty five thousand, the amount which it appears from your letter you require.
You are authorized to take as many of the rifles at Tampa as may be necessary to enable you to comply with your promise to furnish one to each warrior, but they must by no means be distributed till after the Indians reach their destination in the West.
The department is anxiously waiting intelligence that you have succeeded in shipping off the greater portion, or all, of the Indians who have come in at Tampa."
JB.
</docbody>
<dochead>T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO LE GRAND CAPERS</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 30]</source>
<place-time>O.I.A. 31st March 1841</place-time>
<docbody>LEGRAND CAPERS, Tampa Bay, Florida.
SIR, Yours of the 6th instant has been received,” and the information it communicates of the number of Seminoles about to be transported to their Western homes, and of the probability of an additional number being soon ready for the same destination, is gratifying.
There was sent, from this office, on the 6th of February, for removal of Indians, to General Armistead $20,000"—on the 10th to Captain Page (which he informs the Department has been turned over to you)
$10,000,"—On the 19th to General Armistead $25.000"—and on the
26th of the same month to the same officer $25.000.”—the two last sums being part of the appropriation made at the late session of Con-

gress; to enable the General to comply with the engagements he made with the Indians in his efforts to negotiate with them. I take it for granted that all this money was received, soon after your letter was written, as I have had advice that some of it was.
The suggestions made by you have been considered, and the Secretary of War has directed that Major J. Clarke, Quarter Master U.S.A.
stationed at New Orleans, he should receive the Seminoles, as they may arrive at that city, and forward them with the least delay practicable to their destination in Arkansas, A copy of the communication to him, of this date, is enclosed.
You will be pleased, therefore, to remain in Florida, and to send the Indians from Tampa, as fast as they may be in readiness to go, under the Superintendence of General Armistead, and charge of the Gentleman he has designated to see them safely and comfortably emigrated.
So far as regards the finding of them on the voyage, whether by the purchase of provisions to be issued to them on the voyage, or by contract with the Captain of the boats to furnish them with rations as well as transportation, which must necessarily be left to your discretion, in which you will consider the state of the market, the prices asked, and the comfort and kind treatment of the Indians, to conciliate whom is a prime object—that may have an important bearing on the pacification of Florida.
Estimates of funds that may be required from time to time, certified and recommended by General Armistead, as the Superintendent of the emigration, will be forwarded when wanted, and the money will be remitted without delay. In the disbursements you will make, I
cannot enjoin too great a regard for economy, up to the limit which shall not interfere with the good treatment we at all times owe Indians, but which policy especially dictates in this instance.
You will forward to this office copies of all contracts you may make, under the direction of General Armistead, Superintendent &"”
T.H.C.
</docbody>
<dochead>T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO J. CLARKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 30]</source>
<place-time>O.I.A. 31st March 1841</place-time>
<docbody>MAJOR J. CLARKE Quarter Master U.S.A. New Orleans.
SIR, By a letter from LeGrand Capers Esq. disbursing Agent at Tampa Bay, for the removal of the Seminoles, who have been captured, or come in, or surrendered, or who may do so, dated 6th inst.” I

learn that there are about 300 Indians “now ready for transportation, and there is a very strong probability that there will be more in the course or twelve or fifteen days. He states the expense of transportation at about 8 dollars per head, -supplies being furnished by the Commissary's department, —from Tampa to New Orleans—He is unable to estimate the expense from New Orleans to their homes in Arkansas—but recommends in the strongest manner the stationing of an agent at New Orleans to receive the parties as they arrive, and provide for their immediate removal West from that City. In procuring boats for this purpose it is thought to be of great consequence, on the score of both convenience and economy, to take such measures as will prevent any change of boats from New Orleans to the point of destination.
The Secretary of War has designated you to attend to this duty at New Orleans, and the necessary letter will be written by his direction from the Quarter Master General on the subject. You will, therefore, please to give it your best attention, and I am assured from the past official intercourse I have had with you, that it will be well performed.
As to provisioning or finding the Indians on the voyage, you will exercise your best discretion, and determine from your knowledge of the markets and other circumstance, which must enter into consideration, whether it will be most economical and most conducive to the comfort of the Indians, to contract with the boats that shall be necessary to transport and subsist them on the trip, or to contract for transportation only, and purchase provisions to be issued to them by the conductor or Superintendent on the way. It is very important to impress these people favourably—and to produce this effect must be a leading object, which you will keep steadily in view.
A special order by General Armistead, dated at Tampa, 13th inst.”
appointed Major Belknap, 3d Infantry, to superintend the parties of Indians about to embark for Arkansas—whose duties commenced on the 10th inst.—with instructions to report to this office. Lieut.
and Adjutant Sprague 8th Infantry, and Lieut Currier, 3d Infantry, were assigned to duty with the emigrating parties, Surgeon Randall and assistant Surgeon Barnes were also assigned to this duty, the former to be relieved on reaching New Orleans.
If you have time to forward an estimate and requisition for such sums of money as you may require to discharge the above duty efficiently, funds will be immediately forwarded to you—but if on any occasion you should find it necessary you are authorized to draw

upon this office, for such sums as may be requisite to meet the expenses that shall be incurred, as it is a primary object to forward the Indians from Orleans as soon after their arrival as practicable, consistently with their comfort.
In conclusion I will thank you to consult the most rigid economy that may consist with the performance of the duty, in the manner pointed out.
You will forward copies of all contracts you may make to this office. -
T.H.C.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla. Emig.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY E.F. 34 April 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: I have the honor, to report nothing of importance has transpired since my last communication—I have just returned from Sarasota: I went there with Co-a-coo-che or Wild-Cat. I thought it advisable to take him there to see and converse with the Indians there, as some of them were his connexions; from that point he sent a runner to Sam Jones, to meet him at a point selected, about the
8th inst—he promises very fair and says he will bring Sam Jones with him, if he can be got in. It will be about the 10th or 15 of next month before he can collect his people and come in (so he says).
He assured Cotsar and Ho-the-la-poyer, two of the deligation and his own brothers that he would surely come in. Wild Cat and Cotsar are devoted to each other; but we have been taught here to believe a thing, when we see it, and not before. Cosa Tus-te-nug-gy the
2"Chief of the Mick-a-suckies is in with most of his people—he has sent for Helick-Tus-te-nug-gy to come in, the runners have not yet returned—
There are at this place about 150 persons, and 100 at Sarasota I
have sent two runners to the Okee-cho-bee to ascertain what time Hosper-tarkee (the head man of those at Sarasota) will be in, with the balance of his people, so soon as he arrives I shall ship those to New Orleans, if not prevented. Cosa-tus-tenuggy says if Helick does not come in, he wishes to be off very soon. They are so slow to operate with, it is fatigueing to wait on them, but, policy requires us to be patient.
If Wild Cat does not come in by the middle of next month as he promises, I shall think the deligation have done all they can do, 

they have labored hard with those people, and used all the means in their power to reconcile the hostiles to come in *
With respect I have the honor to be Sir Your obt Servt.
JoHN PAGE Capt 4* Inftry T. HARTLY CRAWFORD Esq Com. of Indian Affairs
[Endorsed] Emig" Florida P. 959 Cap" John Page, Tampa Bay—3
April ' Reports that nothing of importance has transpired since his last Communication, in relation to Seminoles—Wild Cat says he will bring in Sam Jones—&c Rec" 13 April '41 File To be laid before Secy of War 
</docbody>
<dochead>CORNELIUS TAYLOR TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Hazard ST JOHNs E. F. April 13th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>To THE HON" [GEORGE E.] BADGER Secretary U S. Navy Washington City—
SIR I beg leave to refer you to my letter address" to Mr Paulding on the 22" Dec 1840,” the written permissions alluded to as given by the officers of the army, (to thier Van Buren party) has caused much difficulty in the propper discharge of my official duties, you will therefore be pleased to answer me distinctly, and give me such instructions immediately as you deem requisite, as our May Term of Court is at hand, & I should like very much to be able to settle those matters with justice to government, as I deem it unfair interference, for partyism to allow thier favourites that kind of previledge if this course is approved, all suits which have been brought by me will of course be lost, I have never interfered with government agents in cutting or thier giving permission for others to do so, when it has been proved to be for government use, but have allways objected to thier making it a matter of speculation, which has been done to a great extent, be pleas" to answer me as early as possible on this subject—There is a great deal of lands in this Country which has been Survey" by gov" Surveyors as public Lands, & is now claim"
by Individuals, those claimants are endeavouring to Sell the Live Oak on those lands te; I Suggest it as a good way of settleing this difficulty, by either having the Lands Survey" or compell them to

do it at thier own expense, please be particular in your instructions in this particular instance,”
Very respectfully C. TAYLOR US. Timber Agent
|Addressed] To The Hon" [Blank] Badger Secretary U.S. Navy Washington City D. C. [Postmarked] Pablo Flo Apl. 13" free
[Endorsed] Taylor April 13/41 Return with the letter to Mr P of
224 Dec 1840 Taylor's letter of Dec 22" was sent to the War Department & not returned. T 115 Apl. 26 Cal” 
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF MINOR WALKER AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Temp. Marshals' Comms., I]</source>
<place-time>April 14, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of MINOR WALKER I do appoint him Marshal of the United States for the Middle District of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office, according to Law; and to have and to hold the said Office with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said MINOR WALKER during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the United States, and no longer.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the fourteenth-day of April in the year of our Lord

one thousand eight hundred and fortyone and of the Independence of the United States of America, the sixty fifth.”
JOHN TYLER, By the President:
DAN WEBSTER Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO JOSHUA G. SEARCY</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book L-1]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT April 16th, 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>JOSHUA G. SEARCY, Esq P.M. Tallahassee F.T.
SIR: I have been instructed by the President of the United States, to inform you that in his opinion the public interest will be promoted by a change of Postmaster at Tallahassee F.T.”
Fr. Gr. 30
</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES EVANS TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Resignations:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District of West Florida PENSACOLA April 20" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>To HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN TYLER Acting President of the United States.
SIR, It is with much regret that I am under the necessity of tendering to your Excellency my resignation as marshal of the District Of West Florida.31
I should feel myself much honored in continuing the office if Florida was a State and my duties were confined to the laws of the United States only; but being obliged as I am to receive all crimenals offending against the laws of the Territory, and to defray the expence of their mentainance from my private funds for want of funds on the part of the Territory, I have not hesitated what course it was most prudent for me to persue.
The duties of my office shall be faithfully attended to, as far as it may be practicable, untill a Successor is appointed ”
I have the Honor to be Sir with great respect your very obedient Servant CHARLES EVANS

[Endorsed] Marshal—W. Florida. Evans C. resigns, April 20.
1841. will act till a Successor Shall have been appointed. Charles Evans, resigns his office, as Marshall of Florida THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO NATHAN SARGENT
<source>[NA:ND, SN Lets. of Appointment]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT 28") April 1841</place-time>
NATHAN SARGENT Esqr Washington D.C.
SIR, You are hereby appointed agent for the preservation of Timber on the Public lands in East Florida.
It will be your duty to Superintend & preserve from waste, destruction, removal, & from every species of depredation, all the timber & wood growing on the Said lands; & the Department relies upon your unremitting exertions & a prompt resort to all proper means within your power to the effectual discharge of this duty.
If necessary you will invoke not only the assistance of the civil authority, but likewise, so far as it can be lawfully given, that of the officers of the Army & Navy for the successful & complete accomplishment of the important trust committed to you.
It is distinctly to be understood that you will abandon all private concerns of your own & others, & that you will devote your whole time & attention to the business of your public Station.
You will report monthly, & oftener if necessary, Statements in detail, making the Department minutely acquainted with all your proceedings. In all doubtful cases you will consult the District Attorney & follow his advice. For all information necessary to enable you to designate private from public lands you will apply to the Land Office at St. Augustine.—
The public interest renders it desirable that you proceed with all practicable despach & enter at once on the discharge of the duties of your appointment.
You will be allowed as a compensation for your services & in full for horse hire & boat, & all expenses of every description which you may incur in the discharge of your Said duties, the Sum of two thousand dollars per annum, payable quarterly, at the Treasury of the United States. Your Salary will be computed from the time when you commence the performance of your duties.
I enclose a blank form of the oath which you will take, Subscribe, & return to the Department.”
I am, Sir very resp' yours, GEO: E. BADGER

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla. Emig.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY E. F. 30th April 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to report I arrived here this day with Eighty eight Seminoles from Sarasota Bay thirty warriors and the balance women and children. I remained at this Point some days till a runner went to Hos-per-tar-keys Camp to ascertain for a certainty if he was comeing, but on his arrival there, he discovered he had cleared out with what few People he had—I then determined to bring all to this place, and unite them with those at this place for emigration—I presume they will start about the 5th of May, I
shall urge the General to ship them—it will be about the 10th of next month before the time arrives Coo-a-coo-che appointed to come in; some have confidence in his comeing in, I see but little to encourage that belief, there are also some other runners out that are expected in shortly—
I think by the 15th of May we can tell if negotiation is at an end—
We have now in camp about 225 Indians ready to ship—Capt Bell with a Company of Dragoons went in pursuit of the bands that murdered the express man and burnt the Mail, he came across them just at night and succeeded in killing Wax-E-Harjo one of the murderers, and found all the express mans cloths and Watch-chain, and several letters and pieces of letters in the Camp he routed him, there was only four or five men in the Camp, but no women, I presume this was only a temporary camp—
This Wax-E. Harjo is a sub-chief of Cosa Tustenuggy who is now here, he declined comeing in, when Cosa came, and has been sent for by Cosa, but would not come, he put himself to the head of a small party of Cosas people, that remained, he having been killed and hung upon a tree in his own Camp will have a good effect Cosa thinks it will have the desired effect, to induce others to come in, a little time will test it and I will give you the earliest intelligence With respect I have the honor to be your obt servt.
JOHN PAGE Capt 4* Inftry T. HARTLY CRAWFORD Esq Commissioner of Indian Affairs P. S—since writing the above, a runner has returned from Cosa Tustenuggy, and says, some of their people are on their way here, and request a waggon to meet them, which will be sent tomorrow, the runner also says, Helick will be in shortly, if this be true—I am in hopes my next report will be favorable.”

[Endorsed] Emig" Florida P992. Cap" John Page–Tampa Bay
30 April’41 Reports his arrival from Sarasota Bay with 80 Seminoles— for Emigration Thinks by 15" May can tell if negotiation is at an End. Capture of one of the murderers of Express rider & death—
Runner has returned from Cosa Tustunnuggee stating that Some of his people are on their way in &c Silent as to negroes See Mr Crawford Rec"  May ’41 ack" 19 May 1841* Mr Berryman WALKER. K. 
</docbody>
<dochead>ARMISTEAD TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., A 132:LS]</source>
<place-time>No 26 Head Qrs: Army of Florida TAMPA May 4". 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to report that I have personally inspected the condition of the 1* Infantry, stationed at Fort Armistead, and find the post untenable on account of sickness, there being at the time of my visit, more than two hundred on the sick report. A
portion of the sick were immediately removed to the General Hospital at Cedar Keys, and the remainder of the regiment will follow at once and occupy one of the islands at Cedar Keys, where it is presumed they will recover and preserve their health.
I extremely regret the necessity of abandoning the position at Sarasota—It is much nearer than Tampa to the bands on Pease Creek and in the Big Cypress, and served as a rallying point for those who were desirous of coming in. There is no post south of this which could be occupied at this season without great risk to the troops.
The Indians now ready for shipment will be detained until the 7"
instant, in consequence of information that sixteen more would be in by that time. An escort and wagons have been sent to Fort Foster *
to conduct this party in, and when they return, the whole will be shipped to their destination.
Coacoochee" and Halick Tustenuggee" are not yet in and may not come in at all, at present. I have direct information that their desire is to go to Arkansaw in the Autumn. We can judge of this

by their remaining quiet during the summer. No forays have been made upon the settlements for some months, which augurs well for the general peaceable intentions of the Indians. I entertain no doubt that peaceful negotiations will bring this war to an end much sooner than uncertain and unsuccessful scouting through the swamps and hammocks.
On the 28" ult” the express between Fort Annuteliga * and this place was killed by Indians & the mail almost wholly destroyed. As soon as the intelligence was brought in by a friendly Indian, Captain Beall was ordered in pursuit, & by a prompt and energetic movement which is highly creditable succeeded in finding one of the hostile party, who was killed on the spot. The Captains report of his expedition is herewith enclosed.”
I am Sir Very Respectfully Your ob’t Serv't W K ARMISTEAD Brig General Comnds Army of Florida THE ADJUTANT GENERAL U.S. ARMY Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] 132 Head Qrs. As of Fo Tampa May 4th 1841 26/W.K.
Armistead Brig. Gen Com" Post at Sarasota broken up on account of sickness—The Indians to be shipped on the 7" inst—recomm”
negotiations to be continued—An Express rider killed—& enclosing a report from Capt. B. L. Beall 2 drs. laid befors the Sey of War A
Macomb ack May 15." Respy sub. L Thomas A. A. G. May 15 1841
This is rather an important communication–Genl Armistead, it is seen, is of the opinion, that “peaceful negotiation will bring the war much sooner to an end—than scouting”—&c—Is this opinion to prevail? If not, the measures for prosecuting the war would be soon decided on-Respectfully laid before the Genl-in-Chief. R Jones A. G. May th LE GRAND G. CAPERS TO T. 
<dochead>HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA: OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla. Emig.: LS]</source>
Office of Indian Agency FORT BROOKE
Tampa Bay E. F. May 7, 1841.
SIR. I have been instructed by Gen' Armistead to proceed with the next party of Indians as far as N. Orleans and to return to this Post with all dispatch—there to pay what is due them—We expect to leave this afternoon with a party of about 220, the exact number I cannot come at by my report now, as we have avoided (as a matter of policy) enrolling them here, or doing any thing that might create

suspicion on their part while negotiation was progressing—I think however the forbearance and kindness that has been studiously and steadily pursued towards them, will ultimately accomplish all we desire—
As tedious as the present system may appear and certainly is—
I have never been more satisfied of a fact, than that it is the only course that can prevent the continuation of this vexatious War for years to come—
I have also the gratification to report, that the Waggons alluded to in my last communication as having been sent to meet a party from Helick Tustenuggys band, arrived last evening with Eighteen Indians, who expressed to me soon after their arrival their extreme willingness to embark at once—I shall write immediately on my arrival at New Orleans—and te return to this post as soon as I have paid and enrolled them, and made with Major Clark the necessary arrangements for their comfort on the passage to Fort Gibson I have not forwarded to you the the contracts I have made for transportation, for the reason that, I design making Monthly reports of all my official acts with the Voucher or contracts duly certified—
I have received Since my last report from General Armistead
$25.000 in Treasury Notes and a draft on the U.S. B. Mint in New Orleans for $5000—which is a superabundance for all our purposes Very respectfully Sir I have the honor to be your obt Servt.
LG CAPERS Disbursing Agent of Indian Affairs T. HARTLY CRAWFORD Esq Commissioner of Indian Affairs Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Emig" Florida C 1404 L G. Capers—Ft Brook Tampa Bay 7 May'41 Reports that he expected to leave for New Orleans with about 200 Ind" & to return—pay what is due them—States reason for not enrolling them at Ft. B. Waggons Sent to meet a party from Helick Tustenugge's band returned with 18 of them Designs making Monthly reports—with vouchers or Contracts—has rec"
since his last report 25.000$ from Gen' Armistead and dft on U.S.
Branch Mint for $.000 Rec" 18 May ’41 ans” 19 May 1841* File JOHN PAGE TO T. 
</docbody>
<dochead>HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA: OIA, Lets. Recd., Fla. Emig.: LS]</source>
<place-time>TAMPA BAY E. Florida 7th May 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor, to report about Two hundred Indians have this day been shipped for Arkansas—Eleven Warriors with their families and part of the Delegation are retained to carry on negotia-

tion—The time Coo-a-coo-che appointed to come in will expire in about four days—
Yesterday Eighteen persons came in from Helick Tus-te-nug-gys band—three men; ten women and five children—the leader says Helick, may come in, but he doubts it—We shall send a runner to him in a few days to test it, we may get some of his people, if he will not come himself-
A runner will also be sent to Sam Jones, the last of the month will test the success—
The emigrants went off cheerfully without a murmer *—The deligation were all anxious to go with this detachment, but I read to them the Secretary of Wars Letter, which induced them to stay—
With respect I have the honor to be Your obt Servt.
[No signature]
T. HARTLY CRAWFORD Esq Commiss of Indian Affair Washington PS Since writing the above Helick Tustenuggee has Sent his brother and another Indian with a talk that he will come in with his people and he also says he will bring in the creeks, this is cheering news to us, if he does come he will bring a large body of Indians with him. JP
[Endorsed] Emig" Florida. P. 977. Cap" John Page—Tampa Bay—7 May’41 reports shipment of about 200 Indians for Arkansas—
11 Warriors & their families—with a part of the Delegation are retained to carry on negotiation Time appointed for Coo a cooche to come in will expire in 4 days—18 have arrived from Helick Tus-te nuggy' band—runner will be Sent to Sam Jones—Tus te nuggyhas sent his Brother with a talk—&c Refers no doubt to party reported by Mr. Capers—on 18 May—Rec" 25 May ’41 ans" 26 May 1841 * Mr Berryman JAMES WHITCOMB TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Bk. 15]</source>
<place-time>May 10, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON SEC: OF Try SIR. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the letter from the Secretary of the Navy referred by you to this Office * on the 7"
inst, requesting that the land officers at S*Augustine Florida, be instructed to furnish the Agent of the Navy Department for the protection of the live Oak growing on the public lands in East Florida, * See Capers to Crawford, May 18, 1841 (H. Doc. 55, 27 Cong., 2 sess., p. 7), reporting his arrival at New Orleans with 240 Florida Indians aboard.

“with copies of plats, field notes, and such other papers as will aid him in the discharge of the duties entrusted to him” and in relation to which you have directed that the proper instructions be given to those Officers.
I beg leave to represent the fact that the transcribing of plats &
field notes, (the former being the appropriate duty of a draughtsman)
has never been regarded as other than extra Official duty when required of any of the local Land Officers and for which they would certainly expect to be compensated from some source; and under the presumption that the Navy Department may have at its disposal a contingent fund which would cover the object, I would respectfully suggest the propriety of an understanding with that Department in reference to the matter of compensation, before any definite instruction be given through the medium of this Office.
This suggestion is made in view of the fact that services have already been required of the land Officers at S*Augustine of a character which they deem extra Official and for which they have an unsettled claim for compensation, that I have not as yet thought proper to bring to your notice.
In connection with this subject I would remark that the emoluments of the Land Officers at S" Augustine, (averaging for the last two years, little over six hundred dollars a year) precludes the possibility of their employing a Clerk on this service.
In case however the Navy Department should not have at its disposal a contingent fund to meet the object, it occurs to me that it would greatly facilitate the accomplishment of the purpose intended, were the Agent furnished by the Navy Department with a supply of
“tracing paper,” (so called) which would enable him to take off hand sketches, extracts or perfect copies of any maps or portions of maps required from time to time."
With great respect Your Obt Serv'.
JA* WHITCOMB Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Bk. 15]</source>
<place-time>May 12, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON JOHN BELL Sec: of War SIR I have the honor to enclose herewith the copy of a letter from the late Gen Leigh Read," of the Florida Brigade, bearing date the

23" of March last," on the subject of the surveys of the public lands ordered to be made on the Suwannee river, by my instructions to the Surveyor General at Tallahassee Florida of the 23" of January last,”
and to state, that as Gen' Read declined to co-operate according to the original arrangement, it will be necessary to revoke the instructions of the 23" January last, and the Surveyor General will be instructed accordingly.
I beg leave to refer to my report of the 8" of February last to the Secretary of the Treasury on the subject of the above Surveys,” a copy of which, it appears, was transmitted with his letter of the 9"
of that month to the Secretary of War.”
I am Sir Very respy Your Obt Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>May 12, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>R BUTLER Esq S. G. Tallahassee Flor: Ter”
SIR, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your two several communications of the 23"" & 27" Ult,” the first in reply to my letter to you of the 10" Ult " " covering the copy of the late Gen' Read's letter to you of the 23" of March last * on the subject of the new surveys on Suwannee river ordered in my instructions of the 23" of January last,” & requesting copies of Col: R. W. Williams' letter of the 27" March last "on the subject of the $2000 error in your accounts
& C. G. Englishe's letter of the 22" March last " on the same subject;-and the last acknowledging the receipt of my letters to you of the 15" & 17" inst.” and requesting a copy of the statement forwarded with your letter of the 21" November 1833,” and that I
would state in whose hand writing the original is made.

In reply I herewith transmit a copy marked A. of the statement received with your letter of the 21" of Nov. 1833, and to state that by comparing the hand-writing of the original with the letters of Col:
R. W. Williams on file in this Office the resemblance induces the belief that the statement is in his hand-writing, except the portions surrounded by the crooked red lines (including the signature of your name) on the copy which appear to be additions made by yourself.
The letter transmitting the statement also appears to be in the hand writing of Col: Williams.
In reference to your request for copies of the letters of Messr."
English & Williams referred to in your communication, I have to state, that it is not customary to give copies of letters of the description of those alluded to, but if after the receipt of your report on the result of the examinations in progress at your Office, any thing should be found in the letters that would be detrimental to you as a public Officer, before they shall be suffered to influence the action of this Office injuriously to you, copies will be transmitted.
I have this day sent a copy of the late Gen' Read’s letter to you of the 23" of March last to the Secretary of War * and informed him that as Gen' Read had declined co-operating according to the original arrangement my instructions to you of the 23" of Jan’ last for the new surveys would be rescinded & you are hereby requested to consider them revoked.”
I am very respy Your Obt Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Commr THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WALKER. K.
</docbody>
<dochead>ARMISTEAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, May 14* 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. K. ARMISTEAD Commanding &c Tampa Florida.
SIR; From all the information in possession of the War Department, it is supposed that the delegation of Arkansas Indians are no longer required to assist in effecting the emigration of the Seminoles. If in your opinion, such be the fact, you will lose no time in causing them to return to their homes West of the Mississippi.
As the presence of Captain Page is much desired at Washington as soon as compatible with the state of the service in Florida, you will substitute for Captain Page some other officer of the Army to

take charge of those Indians, whether they remain in Florida or return to the West; provided an arrangement to that effect can be made satisfactory to them. In case such arrangement cannot be effected, by which the Indians will consent to be separated from Captain Page in Florida, it is possible they may agree that he should accompany them to the mouth of White River, there to leave them to proceed home, whilst he may pursue his route to Washington.—
You will please to give the necessary orders to carry these views of the Department into effect, and to report promptly to Head Quarters your proceedings under this order."
I am sir, &c.
E. SCHRIVER A. A. Gen!
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, May 15" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>JOSEPH S. SANCHES Marshal of East Florida, Saint Augustine, East Florida.
SIR, It having been made known to this Department, that certain individuals have, without authority and to the detriment of the public interests, built upon and otherwise occupied portions of the public lands at and near Saint Augustine, under the control of this Department, you are hereby required, by direction of the President, to proceed under the provisions of the Act of March 3° 1807, entitled
“An Act to prevent settlements being made on lands ceded to the United States until authorized by law”,” to remove these persons and their property from the lands they have occupied.
Before commencing the execution of this duty, you will consult with the District Attorney, the Officer in command of the district, and Lieut. Benham, of the Corps of Engineers, from whom you will ascertain the limits of the land from which the intruders are to be removed, and also what portions thereof, having been occupied under proper authority, are to be exempt from proceedings under these instructions. You will then satisfy yourself of the shortest period within which these persons can make their arrangements for removal, with the least possible injury or loss, and having explained to them the instructions you have received, the measures you are authorized to take for their execution, and your want of discretion in the matter, you will require them to remove within the time you may have determined upon, and await its expiration, before taking any further

steps. Should a military force unfortunately be necessary to enable you to carry these instructions into effect, you will call upon the Officer in command of the district, who will be instructed to comply with your requisition. It is believed, however, that the intruders will retire quietly and peaceably on receiving the representations you are requested to make; but, in any event, you are directed to exercise towards them as much consideration and delicacy, as may be consistent with the due execution of the duty hereby assigned to you."
J.B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO NATHAN SARGENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN General Let. Bk. 28]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEP'MT. 21. May, 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>N. SARGENT, Esq, Timber Agent, St. Augustine.
SIR, Accompanying this letter you will receive extracts from the communication of Thompson Mason, formerly Timber Agent in E.
Florida," containing the complete results of the explorations made by him during the period of his agency there. These extracts, indicating the localities of the live oak hammocks discovered by him, will, it is presumed, materially aid you in the discharge of your duties. To afford you every facility, the Secretary of War has been requested to issue a permit for you to pass up and down in vessels in the employ of that Department; and the Secretary of the Treasury to direct the officers of the Land Office at St. Augustine to allow you to take copies of such maps and papers as you may deem necessary.—You will report to the Department as soon as practicable, the probable cost of copying the papers you may want. With respect to the maps it is suggested, that by the use of trace-paper, they may be copied with

the greatest rapidity and with the least expense; some of this paper will be sent to you immediately.
You will designate to the Department such tracts of land, producing live oak, within the limits of the surveys already made, as in your judgement should be reserved, together with the quantity and quality of timber growing on them; and as the survey progresses, you will communicate similar information as to any new tracts you may discover."
I am, respectfully, &c GEO. E. BADGER.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOHN G. CAMP AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals' Temp. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[May 22, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of JOHN G. CAMP I do appoint him Marshal of The United States for the Middle District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; and to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said JOHN G. CAMP during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the United States, and no longer.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the 22" day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and 41 and of the Independence of the United States of America, the 65**
JOHN TYLER
By the President:
DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO MINOR WALKER</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXI]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE, May 22° 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>M. WALKER, Esq. Marshal of Middle Florida, Talahassee:—
SIR:—I am sorry to say, that the President has deemed it his imperative duty, to make a change in the office which you hold, and to which you have been so recently appointed.”
The murder of Gen. Read at Tallahassee,” apparently perpetrated with so much deliberation of purpose, is calculated to produce very strong excitement. The President is not disposed at present to form any unfavorable opinion of your conduct, or the conduct of those who appear to be among your friends; but he thinks it absolutely indispensable, that the trial of the accused should be conducted in such a manner as to leave no possible ground of suspicion in the public mind that justice will not have its due course;—indeed he takes it for granted that it would be your own wish, under existing circumstances, not to be called on to perform the important duties of Marshal on this occasion.
You will please, therefore, deliver to your successor whatever papers and other things [you may have in your possession?]" belonging to the office, when he shall present you this letter."
I am with consideration, Your Obt. Svt.
D. W.
</docbody>
<dochead>PROTEST TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF THE TERRITORY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[May 24, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the House of Representatives of the United States.
The undersigned Citizens of the United States and inhabitants of the Territory of Florida, respectfully beg leave to call your attention to the void and illegal return of David Levy to Congress as the Delegate from Florida, by reason of his being an Alien and owning allegiance and fealty to a Foreign Power; and to enter their most solemn Protest and Remonstrance against his taking a seat as Delegate from the Territory of Florida in your Honorable House.
The citizens whose names are hereto subscribed do under the most solemn conviction Protest against the return and sitting of the said David Levy as the Delegate from Florida,” being a positive wrong

inflicted upon their rights as Citizens of the United States, and one which is in direct violation of the implied usage which has regulated the election of Delegates, since the passage of the ordnance for the Government of the North Western Territory, and which has since served as the basis of such qualification and requirement.—
In calling your attention to the fact that the said David Levy is not a citizen of the United States nor ever has been, -they submit the following facts,That the said David Levy was born in the Island of St Thomas in the West Indies, on the second day of June A D
1810.” That the said Island is a Danish possession. That the said David Levy has never even applied for letters of Naturalization but has continued to live in this Territory since the year 1829 undivested of the allegiance due by him to his sovereign the King of Denmark, and retains still his subjection to a foreign power. That the said David Levy claims to be a citizen of the United States by virtue of a supposed right of Citizenship extended to his father Moses E Levy; that the said right was incomplete and illegal and in express violation of the acts of Congress regulating the naturalization of Foreigners.—That the said right failing on the part of the Father and claimed by the Son, his equally void; and that Moses E. Levy and David Levy his son are now the subjects of a Foreign Power and are not Citizens of the United States.
Protesting therefore against the Violation of the rights and privileges due us as Citizens of the United States, we remonstrate against the said David Levy an Alien being allowed to take his seat in your honorable body as the Delegate from Florida, and pray that a new election may be ordered "–
San Pablo FLORIDA 24" May 1841.
Henry R. Fort James L. Christopher W" G. Christopher James L. Robinson C Taylor John H. Grinnell Joshua Mansfield Gorge H [MS. blotted]
Henry W. Saunders Andrew Floyd Henry Moore Hartley Crooker Henry M Lindsay Abner Quitterfield Elias Reynolds BenjF Fish John H. Harris Nathan Bunce Stephen B Barrat Stephen B Travis DC Roach William R. Jones Moses Conary Francis L. Rosy

George Sloan James M Kinley Richard Thomas B. Hopkins Geo H Church J. H. Dilworth Jesse M"Kee W. Wilkie Michael G Drummond John Floyd Horace Howard John Houston Mathew French James R Houston Isaacs Christopher Jessie Grissam James Simms L Fatio W* A Houston Levin Johnson Samuel C Houston Y Fitzgerald William Simms H C. D masters John Simms N. Baker John C. Houston W. Fitzpatrick John L. Williams Jo" Fitzpatrick
[Endorsed] Florida–Inhabitants of East-Versus Election of M"
Levy—Protest of 54 Citizens of East Florida against the legality of the Election of David Levy, retuned as the Delegate to this House from Florida June 23–1841 Refd to Comm" on Elections * J A
Clark N York 2. Elections
[Section 2 of Subscribers to Petition]
St Augustine, FLORIDA. 24" May A. D. 1841.
David R Dunham J. G. Landon F Weedon J. R. Evertson Ora Howard Wm. Bevan Saml Northrop J. W. Avery Reuben H. Pinkham John Simpson John C. Cleland Darius Allen Peter Cercopoly Oliver T Howard Ferdinand Lee Jacob G Soule F Jacobs F. Bridier C. Boyé
S. F. Jones Arthur A Brown Jn" J. Sullivan Ch" Haager E. A. Allen Francis Dustin Nathaniel Henry Joseph Canovas A. friedlander John Ponce Jun M. H. Tucker James Arnau Esteban Arnau Jr Ignacio Ortegas Wm G DaViS
Joseph Maestre Mathias Capella Jacob C. Abel Andrew Storrs

F L OR I DA
Joseph Landerol Joseph Barro Y" Dugol George Gianople Andres C Pacetty James Hurlbert Robert Campbell G. Humphreys J M Hanson Benj. A. Putnam Jn" Drysdale John Rodman D. W. Whitehurst John C. Huther John Pitchell Jo” Hernandez John Lenardy Geo Bartlett Cha" Robion John C. Canovas Anthony Canovas G J Zehnbauer Rafael Canovas A. Jones Jr B. Segui C. A. M. Mitchel S. M. Wakeman Donato Andreu G. N. Pappy John Masters Sen"
Emanual Hernandez Thos. T. Russell John Carreras Jose Baya John Simpson Joseph Barbara W. G. Wharton John Pons Jose Mas Roque Leonardy Bartolome Oliveros W. M. Simons Ephraim G. Briggs Bradford Southwick Daniel Hurlbert H. Wharton Peter Knowles Agustine Lopez *
[Endorsed Remonstrance of David R Dunham & others 86 in number
[Section 3 of Subscribers to the Petition]
Pilatka EAST FLORIDA May 24" A. D. 1841–
Thomas S. Bryants Henry Haskell James Stevens J. B. Smith C Bell A. W. Walker R. M. POrter Bernardo Segui, Jr Thomas B, Fitzpatrick Henry W. Riesch Richd M. Ratcliffe James Hart Henry W. Maxcy Darius Parkhurst Michael Neligan David Connar Ja M Lakenau
[Endorsed] Remonstrance of Citizens of Florida 17 in number

[Section 4 of Subscribers to the Petition]
Whitesville Duval C" FLORIDA May 24" AD. 1841
W. H. Johnson S. H. Stevenson Loyd. E. Dillon Robert D Clark J. Voorhees W. Z. Budington—
John B. Johnson John Guard James Mathews A. J. Higginbotham William McConnell J B McCarthy Morris Troll Riley Moore A. W. Montgomery W" M. Thompson N: Voorhees—
[Endorsed] Remonstrance of W H Johnson & others 16
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>May 26, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>R. BUTLER Esq S. G. Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 12" inst.” requesting instructions for the Survey of the town of S’ Marks & the grant of ten Acres reserved to the Tallahassee Rail Road Company, which has been placed on file in this Office, & will be attended to as early as practicable.”
I am Sir Very respy Your Obt Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN PAGE TO T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd. Fla. Emig. :LS]</source>
<place-time>Tampa Bay E. FLORIDA 26th of May 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to report, the runners that I mentioned in my last report” from Helick Tus-te-nug-gy have since been in at Fort King, bringing 115 sticks, the number of people Helick has with him, and, that all will be at the Warm Springs twenty miles this side of Fort King on the 30th inst, when, they will dispatch runners to this place for assistance—if this promise is complied with, negotiation will prosper again. Coo-a-coo-che has been in at Fort Pierce since he left here, with twenty one Warriors, and stated to the Commanding Officer, he was comeing here in a few days

If Helick comes, we shall expect Co-a-coo-che—Colonel Worth with one hundred men went south to the Car-loo-sa-hatch-ee in a steam boat with the deligation, and other Indians that were detained, as guides to get an interview with Sam Jones if possible; we have not heard from him since he left; we have but little to hope for in that section at present-
Our only hope at this moment rests with Helick—Capt Bell is on a scout with one hundred Dragoons and in the vicinity of the warmsprings, I am fearful he will come across these people and scatter them, if so, it will be a long time before they could be collected—It was well known these people were collecting, to come in, and I requested him not to molest them if he came across them I shall hope to report favourable on the last day of this month With respect I have the honor, to be Your obt servt.
JOHN PAGE, Capt 4" Infty T. HARTLY CRAWFORD Esq Commissioner of Indian Affairs Washington D.C
[Endorsed] Emig" Florida P. 1003 Cap" John Page Tampa Bay
26 May 1841 Reports that Helick Tustenuggy with 115 of his people, it is Expected will be at Warm Spring on 30" May—where they will despatch runners for assistance—Coo a coo che has been in at Ft Pierce with 21 Warriors—Stated he was coming to Tampa Bay— Col Worth has gone South to obtain an interview with Sam Jones.
Fears that Cap" Bell with Scouting party will come across Indians at Warm Springs & Scatter them—Rec" 11 June '41 Ans" 18 June
1841* Mr Berryman ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla. :ALS)</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE May 27" 1841.</place-time>
SIR, I have the honor to forward herewith accompained Townships 6 & 7 of Range 18 South and East containing the private claims of F. R. Sanchez and J. S. Sanchez and others with the field notes of connection with the public Surveys, and to advise you that duplicates thereof with the Certificates of said claims have been this day mailed to the Registers Office of East Florida—
I shall request David Levy Esq" Delegate elect from Florida to See and consult you on the subject of having an act passed compelling claimants to attend (after due notice) with the Deputies to identify their beginning corners and furnish such other necessary information from the Keeper of the public Archives, as will ensure

promptness in the completion of the private claim Surveys in East Florida and prevent ruinous delays to the Officer who may be charged with that important duty-
I have the honor to be, very respectfully Yr Mo Ob" St ROBERT Butler Surv" General JAS: WHITCOMB Esq Comm G.L. Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Florida 27 May 1841 S.G. Office Rob'
Butler S.G. Transmits plats of Tp" 6 & 7, R 18 Sth & East conts the private claims of F.R. Sanchez & others with field notes of connection with the pub. Surveys—Has sent this day to the Reg"
Office E. Flor dup thereof with the Certif" of S Claims. In rel.
also to the expediency of passing an an act to compel Claimants to attend (after due notice) with the Deputies to identify their beginning corners, & to furnish other necessary information to ensure promptness in the completion of the private claim survey in E.
Florida–Ackg"June 11 1841" W.T.S.* Quantities Ent"&" H.G. O.”
Recd 5th June 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO THE SENATE BY CITIZENS OF APALACHICOLA</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.: DS]</source>
<place-time>[May 28, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate of the United States.—
The memorial of the undersigned, citizens of Apalachicola, respectfully calls the attention of your honorable body to the distressed condition of their City, and craves permission to suggest the means by which your honorable body may afford them relief.—
The undersigned respectfully represent themselves as merchants, constituting the chief portion of this community, and forming the channel through which the commerce of the country on the Apalachicola River and its tributaries is negotiated.—Their city is the centre of a trade on the gulf of Mexico, inferior in its importance, in both its foreign and domestic relations, only to that of New Orleans & Mobile, and whose prosperous or adverse condition promotes or obstructs the prosperity of large portions of the Territory of Florida and the states of Georgia and Alabama.—Your memorialists respectfully represent that there welfare, as well as that of the region connected

with them in business, is intimately dependant upon the existence of a sound monied circulation. They further respectfully represent that there is no solvent or specia paying bank in the Territory, and that in consequence, there is an entire absence of a sound currency and the means of effecting internal exchanges but at ruinous losses, that from the operation of this cause, their industry has been paralized, their credit impaired, and their whole community, which has, until recently, been characterised as active, enterprising and prosperous, has sustained a blight rendering them incapable of carrying on business.—
From this state of distress and desolation, your memorialists respectfully represent that they can look to no possible source of relief but in your honorable body confirming the act of the Legislative Council of Florida, passed on the tenth day of February in the year
1837, establishing a bank in the City of Apalachicola, intitled the
“Marine Insurance Bank of Apalachicola”, and appointing Hiram Nourse, Hiram W. Brooks, George L. Middlebrook, John Gorrie, Thomas L. Mitchell, Henry R. Taylor, John D. Howell, Oliver C.
Raymond, Elizur Wood and Austin Williams, commissioners for receiving subscriptions to, and distributing the stock of said Bank.—
Your memorialists respectfully represent that they fully believe the crisis which they have reached, calls for the granting to them a charter for a bank, as the only means of restoring the commerce and productive industry of their City, and they trust that the representation which they have made of the actual condition of their affairs, and their great want, will induce your honorable body to revive their hopes and stimulate their energies by a grant of their prayer—and as in duty bound, your memorialists will ever pray.—
Apalachicola, FLO: May 28" 1841
A. Wylie Ellis & Foster Martin Dow Lockhart & Young H. M. Farrior Dodge Kolb & M"Kay Whitmarsh & Richardson Dodge & Gardner J H Hartshorne J. Day & Co Wm Foster B. T. Caro Nathan Baker Tho" L Mitchel Joshua Grant Wm J Morton Joseph Foster J. Nugent Cummings Benj" Hurd Ellison & Ropes William Patrick David G. Raney Lewis Leland William G. Porter & Co J. B. Dorsey C. J. Shepard & Co

H. Hawley J. M. Wright Ja” F. Farrior A Downer H. R. Taylor & Co Charles Rogers Alex Crook Charles A. Green J. W. Griffith Wm H Stark & CO
Robert Myers BS Hawley SA Meyers Wm. Crockett Hamilton & C" J. B. Starr J Prevett Nourse, Brooks & C°
Nathaniel Miller C. G. guyon H. B. Stone Henry Williams H. W. Brooks Geo. F. Baltzell Harper & Holmes George S. Hawkins Robert Robinson JO” B. Webb Tho' W. Brockenbrough A. Rogers W. M. Meggett Rob" May & Co Goldskin & Co
[Endorsed] Florida inhabitants of Memorial of A Wylie and 58
others, Citizens of Apalichicola in Florida, praying the Confirmation by Congress of a certain act of the Legislative Council of Florida, approved Feby. 10. 1837 and entitled “An act to incorporate the Marine Insurance Bank of Apalachicola”—Jany 6th 1842 Referred to the Commee on Territories." Dec 19. 1842 Refd to Commee on the Territories " Levy 8. Territories THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR
<source>[NA:WD, CE Lets to SW and Cong., Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON May 31st, 1841</place-time>
THE HONORABLE JOHN BELL Secretary of War SIR/ A letter to you from the Commissioner of the Land Office, dated May 1st:,” enclosing one to him of the 6th of February from the Receiver at St Augustine,” both relating to a suggested reservation, for Military purposes, of land near the town of Fernandina, Amelia Island, has been referred to this office.—
There is an old Spanish fort at Fernandina called Fort San Carlos which commands an important anchorage, and should undoubtedly

be retained in the hands of the United States.—It is also expedient that a certain extent of adjoining ground—enough to prevent the too near approach of private buildings and the masking the fire of the battery—Should be regarded as part of the Site.—There is not, however, on the map transmitted by the Commissioner of the Land Office, the information necessary to an accurate designation of the tract that should be reserved—If the town of Fernandina is not, as would appear on the map, occupied by any private claims, it will be easy to specify boundaries for the reservation—but as this can hardly be the case, it would seem advisable to seek more information.—I
would therefore suggest that application be made to the Surveyor General, in the expectation that he may furnish a map exhibiting the position, in relation to the fort, of all the private claims adjacent and near.
The papers referred by you are herewith returned."—
I have the honor &c JOS G. TOTTEN Col &c JOSEPH M. HERNANDEZ AND PETER. S. SMITH TO THE
</docbody>
<dochead>SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 1 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>[May 31, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HONORABLE THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
SIR: It is stated, that of the three candidates who ran as Delegate for Florida, David Levy, had the largest vote.
Those of the Citizens of Florida, who opposed Mr. Levy's election, believe him to be an Alien; and in common with those citizens of Florida, we respectfully communicate to the Honorable Body over which you preside, that the right of David Levy, to a seat in the House of Representatives, will be contested, on the ground, that at the time of his election, he was not a citizen of the United States.
We have the honor to be with much respect Your obedient servants WASHINGTON May 31, 1841
JOSEPH M HERNANDEZ
PETER. S. SMITH

[Endorsed] Memorial of J. M. Hernandes and Peter S. Smith, complaining that David Levy is not entitled to a seat as Delegate from Florida. June 21, 1841. Ref" to the Com" on Elections.” Morgan
17. Com on Elections PETER. S. SMITH TO THE PRESIDENT
<source>[NA:TD, ST Coll. Customs, Applications:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON June 3. 1841</place-time>
TO THE PRESIDENT
SIR Upon your Suggestion and permission of this morning, I take the liberty of Stating that Charles Downing the late delegate from Florida (where I have resided for the last Seven years) has lost his re-election principally from the fact that the Loco Foco Office Holders of East Florida, have not been removed.
Let me specify for St. Augustine–Antonio Alvarez, Keeper of the Public Archives—and Mayor of St. Augustine! John Rodman, Loco foco Collector of the Customs, imported from New York years ago, to aid in disseminating Van Burens principles & tactics—Joseph S
Sanches, U.S. Marshall, and a Senator in the local Territorial Council of Florida, by “election” of locofocos' Col. Cole of Virginia, Receiver of Public Monies, sent to us for political effect, & to keep us in the Van Buren harness.
Col: Dill—Collector at Jacksonville, E. Florida, & Past Postmaster at Jacksonville & J. M. Fontane, Interpreter, at St Augustine—all the above, have been, & were, in the recent delegates elections, active
& leading & interfering politicans! Some of them, the U.S. Marshall
& Territory Senators, for instance, made public proclamations on the day of election. That Downing had tried his best to turn him out &

couldn't and said he, let us elect Levy, & I know we wont be removed!!!
The interference of these U.S. Officers in our election has been gross throughout."
But Sir—it is not too late to aid the cause of “correct principles”
with us—David Levy the loco foco who has Succeeded—running between Downing & Wade (Whigs) is absolutely an Alien! & it will so be shown to Gongress the H. of Representatives and he cannot take his Seat! 97
I feel confident that a new election will be ordered by the House—
And most respectfully & earnestly would I beg leave to urge upon your Administration, the turning out of the Officers Specified who continue to brave public opinion by their gross interference with the freedom of elections.
I am a candidate among Several others for the Collectorship of the Port of St. Augustine, if it Should be thought that my appointment would best promote confidence & the ends of the Public Service.
I am with much respect, Your friend & humb' Servt.
PETER S SMITH
P.S.. I was a personal friend of Gen Harrison, & wrote him but a few days before his death.
Allow me to add a Single word here, in hehalf of my kinsman, Maj" Jas. Cochran, of N. York, my native State. He is aged & worthy
& deserving, in every Sense of the word. and his appointment to any office that would comfort his declining years, would be in the highest degree acceptable to the Whigs of Western N. York. His wife is a daughter of Gen Schuylers of the Revolution.
[Addressed] To The President Washington
[Endorsed] Peter S. Smith earnestly importuning the removal of Custom house & other officers Florida JAMES WHITCOMB TO ROBERT BUTLER
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>June 4, 1841</place-time>
R. BUTLER. Esq S. G. Tallahassee Flor. Ter.
SIR I herewith enclose the copy of a letter marked B, bearing date the 6" of Feb' last, addressed to this Office by the Receiver at

S" Augustine Flor. Ter," recommending a Reservation of land for public uses situated on Amelia Island near, & in a small town called Fernandina.
I also enclose the copy of a letter on the same subject bearing date the 29, Ult” addressed to the Hon Secretary of War * and requesting particular information through this Office as to the precise location of the old Spanish Fort at Fernandina called Fort San Carlos, previous to establishing the boundaries for the proposed reservation, & in order to enable this Office to reply to the communication of the Secretary of War of the 2" inst, & the above letters to this Office, I
have to request that you will at your earliest convenience forward to this Office a diagram of the public surveys in the North end of the Island in question accompained by such information as may be in your power to identify the position of the Fort & town thereon.”
I am very respy Your Obt Serv"
JA* WHITCOMB Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, June 5" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXCELLENCY R. K. CALL, Governor of Florida, Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, Your communication of the 21" ultimo,” requesting that the Officers of the Staff Departments of the Army may be ordered to furnish “Arms, Ammunition, provisions, forage and transportation,”
for a “Volunteer force,” to be called into the service of the United States for the protection of the frontier settlements of Florida, has been received.
The detailed instructions recently transmitted to Colonel Worth, of the 8" Infantry, now in command of the regular force in Florida,"

consisting of more than five thousand men, were carefully prepared by this Department, with a special regard to the protection of the citizens of that Territory, and it is confidently believed that his arrangements, under those instructions will supersede the orders you desire.
Occasional instances of outrage may, nevertheless, occur—for, a very small party of savages, even one or two individuals, with their habits of eluding observation, and rapidity of flight, may defeat, to some extent, the best dispositions that can be made of the whole force in Flordia; but the employment of a large additional force would not, it is apprehended, afford any commensurate additional protection.”
Individual cases of murder and outrage occur, even in organized communities, nor can they be altogether prevented in the best regulated societies."
J.B.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN G. CAMP TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee MIDDLE FLORADA June 7" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Owing to various accidents occuring to the Steam Boat &
Rail Road cars, -my arrival in this place was delayd untill Friday the 4th Inst It is impossible for you to immagine the excitement which prevails in this place, & vicinity, Altho Judge Allen refus’d to admit Willis Alston to bail, nevertheless two of the Justices of the peace in this county, in the absence of of the District attorney did bail him out of Jail on Saturday the 5" Ins" In the absence of Judge Balch, I appear'd before Judge Allen with my official bonds, which were accepted & I was sworn into office this day.” No sooner than this was made known to Alston than he pursued me to the Governors Office, where he not only treated me with great rudeness but also

the Governor, who in my opinion is doing everything in his power to sustain the supremacy of the laws.
A Mr Wilson has just informed the Governor that if I shall undertake to exercise the duties of Marshall before M Walker shall have an opportunity to vindicate himself against the charges preferd against him, that my life shall be the forfeit, The Gov, is so much alarm'd that he insists on my taking up Lodgins at his house, but I have resolved to stand my ground, & not yield an inch, I am satisfied that the whole gang are a set of cowards, & that nothing is to be feard from an open attack from any one of them, Alston told me to day in the Presence of the Governor that he had heard from Washington, that a Col. Camp had been sent on here who car'd not for dirks, Pistols, Rifles, or Bowie Knives, But he may find his match, I replied—that I was at a loss how he could come by any such information when he replied that he went to the P. Office last night & found a letter directed to Miner Walker, & P. Mark"
Washington, that he Opened Walkers letter & found it to be writen by a Col. Bryant now in Washington city, I recollect to have seen this Mr Bryant, he, I think is from Tenessee, & has some claim upon the War Dep"
The friends of Alston view me as some what identified with the friends of Gen' Reed, altho I have taken great pains to satisfy them, that, I stand entirely aloof from all parties, that its the wish of the goverment that entire justice shall be done to all, & that so far as I
have any agency in that, or any other business, I shall be governed by the strict rule of Justice, with mildness, but at the same time with firmness I understand that some twenty of the friends of Alston will be in from the country tomorrow, with what view & for what purpose is only conjecture; some dozen gentlemen of this city of high respectability have this moment sent only a note to Dr English & in the most respectful manner tendering to me their services, & if necessary their lives in support of the Law, the fact is there is material in this country for the best society, & if only some ten or fifteen blacklegs, & desperadoes were driven out of the country, no people in the U. S.
would enjoy better society, But the truth is, the people are afraid of these desperate fellows, & they know it, & therefore keep them in fear *

I have the Honor to be, with great Respect Y Obt Servt Jn° G. CAMP
HON' DAN WEBSTER Secy of State
[Addressed] Honb' Daniel Webster Secretary State U. S. Washington City Dis Col [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo" June 7 1841 Free
[Endorsed] Mr Dickins June 19th file J. G. Camp GEORGE S. HAWKINS TO NATHANIEL P. TALLMADGE 10
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:ALS]</source>
<place-time>APPALACHICOLA June 8, 1841.</place-time>
HON: N. P. TALLMADGE
SIR, I trust my addressing you may not be deemed indelicate on account of a very slight acquaintance; but presuming on your knowledge of many of my relatives, and a friendship I believe with the late Co' Samuel Hawkins my father, I take the liberty of asking your good services for procuring me the Office of District Attorney of the Middle District of Florida.—In asking your Co-operation in this matter, I feel somewhat emboldened by the strong recommendations of my friends in Florida some of which are on file in the Department of State and in the possession of the President, and I am proud to add, that the bar generally have given their testimonials in my behalf.—
It is thought, that the present incumbent will be removed—The state of society at Tallahassee owing to the recent murder of General Reed is very unsettled and the greatest excitement pervades the Community, owing to the fact, that the friends of Reed and Alston, his murderer, are in array against the other—The public demand as well as the crisis, a man of fearlessness in the discharge of duty, for threats of a sanguinary nature have been made against those who prosecute, 

and my friends claim for me that essential requisite at this juncture for the Office.—
The fact, that I have been several times elected to our Legislature and elected President of our Senate, I trust can be quoted as evidence of my standing and reputation without rendering myself amenable to the charge of vanity—
Our late Delegate Downing, who takes a warm interest in my behalf, has been beaten owing to the whigs running two Candidates, and a M. Levy, a rank loco foco, succeeds him.—
It is needless to say, that I have always been Conservative in my political feelings and am now an adherent of the present administration. We hope to enter the Union, as soon as this disastrous Indian War is brought to a close, and we hope to give three electoral votes to the party in power at the next election, for there is a strong whig majority in the Territory.—
If at any time in the discharge of your public duties, you may require any information in relation to affairs in Florida, I shall feel happy at all times to accord it to the extent of my ability,"—
With sentiments of high regard, I am Y” ob" Ser'
GEORGE S. HAWKINS.
[Addressed] Hon: N. P. Tallmadge, Senator, Washington.
[Endorsed] Attorney–Mid. Florida. Hawkins Geo S. applies 1841.
other papers sent to the Senate.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN G. GAMBLE TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applics. and Recomds.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE June 9* 1841</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR Confident that elevation to the highest earthly honor has not changed the man, I will continue to address you with the honest frankness of a friend.
You will see that the removal of Minor Walker from the Office of Marshal of the district has given great dissatisfaction here, to the friends of the administration—and the feeling is aggravated by a knowledge of the influence by which it has been effected—The influence of one, whose territorial politics have been the worst kind of loco focoism; and whose conduct, throughout the progress of the feud which has at length resulted in the death of Gen' Leigh Read, has been that of either a bad, or a mad-man.
It is understood that Mr Walker has been removed from office, in

consequence of representations of Governor John Branch *—and they have been of a character to convince you that immediate action was indispensible—you would not else have dismissed an officer, so recently appointed by President Harrison, without an opportunity of being heard in his defense. Of the falsehood of any charge against Minor Walker requiring his dismissal, his friends cannot doubt—And I pray leave to warn the administration to be cautious how they lend credence to any information from this quarter, which is not vouched by persons entitled to, and possessing its confidence.
You Sir can form no idea of the effrontery with which falsehood is invented, and propagated here by the unprincipled crew, congregated hereabout under the patronage of the late federal and territorial administrations. Not a particle of truth is required as the substratum of Mountains of falsehood. I could adduce a dozen examples referring to the death of Gen' Read; and will take the liberty of mentioning two, which have most probably been retailed in Washington.
The first was told me by Col” Williams the Son in law of Gov. Branch, & I am sure was then believed by him. It charged, that Minor Walker then newly appointed to supercede Gen' Read as Marshal, had made an appointment to meet the latter at the Court House in this City, on Monday the 26" April, for the purpose of receiving from him the papers pertaining to the Marshals Office—and that notice of the appointment was given by Walker, to Willis Alston, who thereupon stationed himself on the premises, whence he shot Read. Walker therefore was an accessory to the homicide.
As I had recommended Mr Walker to the Sec of State I felt it my duty to enquire into the truth of this charge; and learned that M. Walker arrived in Tallahassee in the Stage, returning from Washington, on friday evening 23 April—that on Saturday morning he left town early, & went to his home some 15 or 18 miles north east of this City—he remained there with his family the remainder of that day, & Sunday—that he had no communication directly or indirectly with Read, & made no appointment to meet him, on Monday, or any other day—and consequently could not have informed Alston of the intended meeting. That on Monday morning, in company with some of his neighbours, who came bye on their way to Tallahassee, he set out for this City; and when within a few miles of town, they met a man who gave the information that Read had been kill shot that morning, by Alston—M" Walker had not “qualified” as Marshal, and could not have received a transfer of the papers of the Office, if he had met Read—nor did he become the Marshal of the district until

the day after Reads death. By request of the Coroner (the sheriff of the County being then in jail for shooting a man) Walker consented to act as his assistant, or Bailiff, in arresting Alston, taking him before Judge Allen, & detaining him as a prisioner, until, he had taken the oath of office, & until the jail was ready.
The other example, relates to Gen Call; and I select it, because it is understood that efforts are being made, to procure his removal.
A respectable gentleman informed me, that on the day on which Read was shot, he went to the Court house to witness the examination then going on before Judge Allen—that he went in company with an acquaintance belonging to the loco foco party-that after standing together, & listening to the testimony for some time, they left the Court House together; and his amazement was extreme, at hearing his companion, soon after, narrate to a crowd, that while he was attending the examination Governor Call came into Court & proffered to bail Alston. Need I add that Call did not go to the Court House; or that the whole story was an impudent fabrication?
You will have been apprized, that before M Walker was superceded here, by Major Camp, Willis Alston had been released from jail, and admitted to bail—whether by the rightful authority, is a much disputed point.
As an Officer, I think M Walker possessed qualifications particularly suited to this region, & certain portions of its population with great self possession, & suavitee of manner he is a man of undoubted firmness—not one who talks about pistols, dirks and Bowie knifes—such ornaments, form no part of his wardrobe, as means of enforcing submission to law—Without any such auxilliaries, I would rely upon him, for putting down resistance to lawful authority, sooner than almost any man in the Country.—The wearing of pistols, bowie knives &c by officers of justice has become so common since loco foco ism got possession of the reins of government here, that Walkers refraining from their use looks somewhat like Affectation. His predecessor, Read, was always armed to the teeth—the loco foco sheriff of the County does the same, and recently shot, & killed a poor drunken man, whom he accosted for making a noise in the Streetsome silly boys persuaded the man to take to his heels, which he did, & was arrested by a ball from the Sheriffs pistol. The Sheriff was arrested, confined a few days in jail; & having given bail is now in the performance of his Official duties.—It is probable that Governor Branch may have exhibited Affidavits sworn to by before the Editor of our loco foco gazette—a judge whose pistols are always conspicuous on his person, whether on, or off the bench—and who escaped the penalty of an law against wearing “concealed weapons,” by the sage

decision of Judge Balch, that pistols & Bowie knives, worn so as to be seen, did not come under the meaning of the Statute." I
mention these things by way of episode—they will be new to you.
I will only add in relation to them that these Characters are all the political friends of Governor Branch—foisted upon this Community when loco-foco ism held the reins—and the time has not yet come when Gov” Call could, legally, put better men in their places. If the government has been induced to believe that the removal of Walker was necessary for the purposes of justice, in bringing Willis Alston to trial for the killing of Read, there has been a remarkable want of discretion in arranging matters here. Major Camp, the successor of Walker, has come here, apparently consigned to the friends of Read. He takes up his residence at the house of Col”
Williams, the brother in law of Read, and son in law of Gov. Branch—
and the members of the family of Governor Branch are the sureties of the new Marshal.
If for the purposes of justice, it was necessary to guard against any supposed, or possible bias on the part of the Marshal in favor of the prisoner, is it not of vastly greater importance, that there should be no possible ground to suspect an influence, and bias operating against him? Nevertheless from the circumstances mentioned, which I knew believe to have been accidental, an impression will go abroad, that the Government of the U States has lent itself to the gratification of the revengeful feelings of the friends of Gen.'
Read; and the matter planned to ensure the conviction of Alston—
and that to secure his execution, Governor Call will also be removed.
M Websters mind will readily suggest the use which skilful Counsel will make of such materials for defense—And when added to the usual protections afforded a prisoner in peremptory Challenges, & challenges for Cause, can he think it would be possible to find a jury which will convict Alston? Or that his execution could follow, without hazard of resistance, & bloodshed? And altho' every man of Correct thinking, will unhesitatingly condemn, and invoke justice to punish Alston, it does not follow, that in the minds of many the killing of Read (except as to the manner) is not either justified, or palliated, by many of the prior occurrences.—I think the chance of a conviction hopeless. And I think too that he will never be brought to trial, for I have only this moment learned that a new warrant for his arrest has been issued, & that some 50 or more men, have gone in pursuit. If a majority of those fifty, have not gone

with determination to kill him, I am deceived. Twenty four hours more, will probably decide whether the man of Blood, has not met a bloody end.
In the early part of this letter I made allusion to the conduct of Gov. Branch in relation to the feud, prior to Read's death. The feud commenced at the election in Oct. 1839, in a rencounter between Read
& Doc' Tradewell, both being Candidates before the people—from beginning to end, it was a private feud; and up to the time of his killing Col” Augustus Alston in a duel, in all its phases, & stages, Read was outrageously the aggressor. The feud never had more of party complexion, than that the individuals belonged to different political parties. But from the beginning, Governor Branch has striven to represent, and to make it a party feud. He has at different times insulted the whole Whig party with the charge of endeavoring to compress the death of his son in law, by instigating his personal enemies to kill him—not contented with such general charges he has at times directed them against the most respectable Citizens by name–And I learn has even thought, or said, that a Bank was the instigator.
It is not for me, in relation to future action by the high dignitaries at Washington, to say more than suggest the enquiries, whether M"
Walker should not, even now, be furnished with the charges & specifications, preferred against him, and be heard in his defense? And if acquitted in the Opinion of the government, whether he should not be reinstated?
To my unsophisticated mind, such a course would greatly redound to the honor of the Administration. And I have misunderstood Major Camp, if he will not cheerfully relinquish, & receive the favors of the Administration in another quarter.
If I knew how to pen one adequate to the Offense, I would present an apology, for this long intrusion upon your time May you live a thousand years!"
Yours sincerely JOHN G GAMBLE
HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN TYLER Pre" U States
[Endorsed] Affair of Mr. Walker Marshal for Mid Florida, with Read, Allston, &c. Walker vindicated by Jno. Gamble June 9. 1841.
Letter from John G. Gamble—on Florida affairs

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN G. GAMBLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW, Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, June 10th 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN G. GAMBLE. Esqr. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR, The President has referred to this Department your letter of the 27" ultimo," on the importance of paying the Florida militia immediately &c.
The considerations you present in support of your views, are fully appreciated, and the Department has already taken measures to have all just claims against the United States liquidated without delay so far as the subject is under its control.
From official reports, and from the records of the Department, it appears that, except the militia of your Territory whose services were regularly called for, there are none that can be paid, without a special Act of Congress, but those ordered out by the Governor in 1840 whose service was sanctioned by the late President in an order dated May 5"
1840." The greater part of these, it is believed, were continued in service under General Read and have a balance of pay due them on account of the latter service.
The appropriations made by Congress at the last session included only part of the amount required for the Territorial service under the order of the Governor, and made no provision for the payment of the balance due for service under General Read; of course only a part of each individual's claim, that the Board, ordered to investigate them, has examined, can be paid until an additional appropriation is made.
The subject is now before Congress and it is hoped that, by the time the Board has completed the investigation, a sufficient amount will be appropriated to satisfy the claims; if not, they will be paid so far as the funds now applicable will go.
Before the claims for supplies can be paid it is indispensably necessary that they undergo a revision by the Accounting officers here, in order that they may be compared with similar claims heretofore paid, and be subjected to other precautionary tests to prevent the impositions that have so frequently been practised upon the Government, and in consequence of which many fraudulent claims are supposed to have been admitted. The revision of the claims here, will, it is believed, consume but a short time; as the board will be directed to forward each case as it is acted on, and as every effort will be made to despatch them with all possible rapidity.
JB.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN G. GAMBLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, June 10" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN G. GAMBLE, Esqr. President of the Union Bank of Florida, Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 24" ultimo," on the subject of the loan made to the Territory of Florida, in the Fall of 1839, by the Union Bank of that Territory, for the purpose of purchasing supplies for militia called out for the defence of the country, and representing the great importance of an early repayment of the amount by the General Government, which you consider bound for it.
The Department regrets that it cannot legally comply with your wishes. No evidence can be found that it ever authorized or in any way assumed or recognized the loan. The only arrangement it made to relieve the Territory from the liabilities it incurred in calling militia into service, without authority from the General Government, was to cause the troops called out by the Governor in 1840 to be afterwards mustered into the service of the United States, from the period they entered that of the Territory. The Department thus made itself liable for their pay and allowances, and for the claims for supplies furnished them so far as they are authorized by the laws of the United States. Whatever amount of these claims the Territory may have properly paid, if any, and can legally be admitted at the Treasury, will be withheld from the individuals and refunded to it on the production of the proper proofs of payment. No payment can be made by the Department but upon such proofs, and it would only be in case of the assignment of these by the Territory to the Bank that the amount to be refunded would be paid over to it."
JB.
</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE ALLEN TO MINOR WALKER</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applics. and Recomds.:C]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 10* June 1841</place-time>
<docbody>MINOR WALKER Esq SIR, Your letter dated yesterday came to hand late this afternoon *—You State the President of the U. States had removed you from the Office of Marshal of the United States for the District of

Middle Florida," on account of representations of improper conduct in the case of the Territory vs Willis Alston charged with the murder of Leigh Read, and you request me to State all the facts within my knowledge, relative to the arrest and commitment of Alston, as you are desirous to lay before the President a true and full Statement of the facts, that your conduct and character may be may be relieved from unmerited aspertions.
About 11. Oclk in the morning of the 26" April, I was informed that Willis Alston had Shot and dangerously wounded Leigh Read-
That a warrant had been issued and that Alston was then in custody—
That the Hon: Alfred Balch Judge of District was indisposed and that it was the wish of the citizens generally that I should preside at the hearing of the case as great excitement prevailed and a bloody conflict would probably ensue if the examination was had before justices of the peace—That many persons were armed and threatening some to shoot Alston and others to stand by him & prevent his arrest &c.
I immediately repaired to the Court House and sent for you—
You stated that you had not given Bonds and qualified; but expressed a perfect willingness to to aid the Officer charged with the process—
The coroner to whom the Warrant for the arrest of Alston was delivered came to me and stated that Alston had sent for and voluntarily surrendered himself to him, and that Alston declared himself willing to come before the Judge at any moment, but that he was apprehensive that he would be shot down in the street the moment he came out of the house. I directed the Officer to summon a sufficient guard from among the citizens to prevent the escape of the prisoner and also to protect him from violence.—The prisoner was brought immediately before me at the Court house under an armed guard—I directed that the doors should be open and the examination should be public—That no person except the guard should be permitted to enter the room with fire arms &c I have since understood and indeed was informed during the progress of the examination that the guard were friends of Alston and would as was suspected rescue him should he be committed—I ordered an addition number to be summoned by the Coroner—The persons however first summoned conducted themselves throughout the examination with perfect propriety so far as I could perceive—You however had nothing whatever to do with summoning the guard on that day so far as I
know or believe—After the prisoner was brought in and the witnesses were being examined you came and said to me that you were preparing your bonds &c and wished to leave the Court House for that purpose—I assented and requested you to be Sworn in as early as

possible—It was near dark when the examination closed—I was about to write out a warrant of commitment when the Coroner approached my Seat and stated that the jail was not yet completed that the county authorities had not received the building from the undertaker, and that he fearing the house would be pulled down during the night, positively refused to permit Alston to be confined in it—
The officer was then ordered to confine the prisoner in a close room until the next day.—On the following day I delivered a warrant of commitment to the Coroner—He then informed me that you had been sworn in that morning—I told him in that case he could deliver the warrant to you—At the same time the warrant was delivered a requisition was made by me upon the Volunteer Copany of the Town to hold themselves in readiness to obey the call of the executive officer of the court—You however took the prisoner to jail without the aid of the Malitia and without resistance or disturbance.
I have no hesitation in declaring that your conduct in the matter so far as I know or believe was wholly blameless—I saw-he witnessed nothing in your course in this matter which I am not fully satisfied with the correctness of—I take this occasion to say that I have entire confidence in the honor and integrity of your character as a man and as an officer—I have, as you will perceive written this in verry great haste."—
Werry respectfully Yr Obt Sevt R. C. ALLEN Judge
[Addressed] Minor Walker Esqr. Late Marshal. Middle District Florida
[Endorsed] Copy of a letter from the Hon. R. C. Allen, Judge &c NATHAN SARGENT TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>STAUGUSTINE June 10, 1841</place-time>
HON GEO E. BADGER
SIR. Since my arrival in this Territory I have been up the St John's River from its mouth to Pilatka, 120 miles, but could hear of no trespassers on the public lands. I have called on the officers of the Land Office here for such information as they could give me in regard to the metes & bounds of the public reserves, & to obtain copies of such maps as would aid me in the discharge of my duties; but I find ne stieh maps none of of the reservations laid down upon the township

- — —–-- - - - - - - - - = -- *-
maps, & indeed, such is the indiffinite manner in which they were necessarily described by the Agent making the selections before the townships were surveyed that it is not possible to lay them down now without their bounds being ascertained by actual survey.
You are aware that this Territory is dotted over in every part of it with private grants from the Spanish Gov" some of which have been confirmed, while some remain yet to be acted upon. The very indefinite manner in which these are described, both in the original papers, and in the decision of the court confirming them—sometimes the tract being described as, say 1000 acres lying about two or three miles from a given place, in a given direction—renders it utterly impossible to enter them upon the township map.
Hence you will perceive the very great difficulty of sometimes ascertaining whether a given tract of land is public & subject to be entered or whether it is a reserve, or whether it is not covered by a private grant, the more I examine into the subject the more I perceive the almost inextricable difficulty in which the vague & indefinite descriptions of the grant and decisions of the courts have involved the subject, & which can only be remedied by actual surveys of the reservations.
You will perceive from this that there are no maps to be copied, unless indeed copies be taken of the very few upon which private grants have been laid down as surveyed. But there are lists of private grants confirmed & unacted on, with descriptions, such as they are, of their localities, bounds &c, copies of which would be of great service to the Agent & which he ought to possess. The expense of copying these would probably be from forty to fifty dollars.
I have received the communication from the Department dated
21st May.”
I can kearn hear of no live Oak trespassers nor is there likely to be any timber cut during the hot months.”
I have the honor to be with great respect your obdt Serv"
N: SARGENT Agent &c
[Endorsed] Sargent June 10 1841 Shall Mr Sargent be authorized to incur the cost of $40 or $50 in preparing copies of the grants &c within mentioned—Yes. Ans July 23 1841* No reservations have been made in E Florida. M. Sargent wishes copies of papers taken, the cost of which he says will be from forty to fifty dollars. This cannot be done without authority from the Dept S 325 June 28 Cal

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY TRUSTEES OF THE MALE AND FEMALE ACADEMY OF QUINCY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[June 10, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Serate and House of Representatives of the United States The Undersigned Trustees of the Male and Female Academies of the Town of Quincy Gadsden County Florida, beg leave respectfully to represent to your Honorable body the following reasons why they think an application for a donation of a Township of Land for the endowment of a Female College at this place is reasonable, and upon which they ground their hope of Success in this their petition From our natural position we are cut off Measurably from an enjoyment of the advantages of Similar institutions located in other States. So much So that they can only be enjoyed by a few of the wealthiest of our Citizens, leaving the great mass of our female population entirely dependent for an education on accident, for. it is a Serious fact. that in this extensive Territory there is not a Single institution so far as our knowledge extends where a man of moderate Circumstances can place his daughter with a reasonable hope and expectation tipen his leaving it, of having acquired even a tolerably liberal english education—
Of the Advantages of education and the influence the female portions have upon Society, and the rising generation it is useless for us to dilate, especially to as intelligent a body as that of which you are Composed, and which by its acts wields the destinies of our Common Country—
If. “The General distribution Bill” passes,” being a Territory, we presume we shall enjoy none of the benefits of it although a large quantity of the finest Vacant lands in the United States lie within its boundaries, and will be Sold for the benefit of our. Native States
(for which however we cherish a Strong affection) and we shall be cut off from all hopes of ever deriving any benefit from that Source, and be left to Struggle on as best, we can, which is ever a difficult task in a new country where Capital is Scarce, and education is one of the last and least Subjects to which mens minds can be drawn, especially in a field offering so many subjects of speculation as Florida does, and where as in every Section individual aggrandizement is apt to be the ruling principle rather than the public weal.—
We Would respectfully State that our location is 22 Miles from Tallahassee the Seat of Government of our Territory and the only

advantages we profess to possess lies in the Simple fact of possessing the healthiest Site in Middle Florida, its Comparative remoteness from the Scene of Indian depredations & the fact that persons from all the Middle Counties & a portion of the Western Counties have Sent their Children here to an ordinary School without a Single death having occured among them for years past, and that the general impression is that the Male College when located (for which your Honorable body have already made provision) will probably Centre here—in addition to this ours is not a Commercial mart which certainly is greatly in favor of the morals and manners of Schools being free from temptation Harrassed as our Territory has been and probably will be for some time to Come by the Hostile Indians, it is utterly out of the power of our Territorial Government to assist us in the furtherance of our V1eVVS
Therefore to your our natural protectors we have alone to look and throw ourselves upon your liberality and patriotism We. Respectfully pray for the appropriation of a Township of Land as the means of Endowing a Florida Female College at this place, with Such checks upon the Trustees of said institutions as you may think best for the faithful discharge of their duties—
As a Pledge for the faithful disposition of the funds to be Created by this donation we stipulate that the interest only is to be appropriated exclusively to the Sustaining of the incidental expenses of the institution, and that the Buildings for the Same Shall be erected by a Subscription of our Citizens.
All of which is respectfully Submitted.
QUINCY Fl" June 10, 1841.
JAMES GIBSON
C H. DUPONT.—
JOHN, M. W. DAVIDSON
B. MEACHAM
JOS M. GILCHRIST Trustees WILLIAM FORBES
ARTHUR. J. FORMAN.
ISAAC R HARRIS
DAVID T McBRIDE
[Endorsed] Florida—Trustees of Academy at Quincy Memorial of Trustees of the Male & Female Academy of the town of Quincy Gadsden Co. Flo. and of 82 other citizens praying a grant of land for the endowment of a Female College in said County. Houston 22
Dis & to lie Comm” Territories Dec. 16. 1841* Referred to the Com-

mittee on the Territories Jan. 21. 1843 *—Report vs—to lie &
print The Chairman April 17, 1844 *—Dis" & to lie Levy Com on Territories Jan 30, 1844,” ref" to Com" on Territories. April 17.
1844 Dis & to lie Memorial &c for grant of land for Female College in Gadsden Co.
[Enclosure:DS]
Petition to Congress by Citizens of Gadsden County
[June 11, 1841]
To the Honorable The Senate & House of Representatives of the United States.
The Undersigned Citizens of Gadsden County Middle District of Florida do most Cheerfully Concur in the Sentiments expressed in the Annexed Memorial & Petition from the Board of Trustees of the Quincy Male & female Academies and humbly pray that Your Honorable body will grant a Donation of Land as Prayed for in said Memorial, for the Endowment of a Female College to be located at. Quincy in Said County of Gadsden. &"
June 11*1841.
Wm S Gunn Jn° W Malone J Ferguson Jr N. D. Zeigler W* H. Hagood H Gee John. W. Ogilvie John. G. Gunn E. S. Shepard Jno. C Love Robert. L. Harrison James Lancen Stockley Sudbury Jesse M°Coll William Edward W Hudnall D, W, Hollamon William Memson Hudson Muse Ja” M. Williams J H Seabrook C. C. Joyce John Wynn Z M Scott Wm. B McCall Uz Wood James Mayo B. C. West J. H. Keadle Oliver Little Jno. N. Poindexter R Evans A. K. Allison P,. Blount Isaac Nathans Robt. R. Gowers G. W. Benton F Hollamon

Thomas Baltzell T. J. Kenan C H. Austin W. Bains Nathan Sheffer W, H, McMillen Jacob Dykes John Smith David L. White Benj: O: Smith B F Wilson J, macinnis.—
James. M Wilson Arch" Campbell Reuben Scott H. H. Brown Isaac Wilson A. E. Gregory R K Shaw John Long R. H. M. Davidson W” J. Armistead C Waller R H Wilson C Tury Newell Gilchrist I. A. Fillyard B. McMillan M H Martin William M Campbell W J Atwater R. C. Lester.
L. W. White John W. Mann G M Smith John W. Mann, Jr John Wind W. T. Stockton O. W. Pittman T D Wilson Charles De Waal Jas. H. Gibson John S. Young L Gregory HENRY I. 
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAMS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]</source>
<place-time>PHILAD" June 14th 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to enclose a memorial from the Holders of the Bonds issued by the Bank of Pensacola Aaddressed to the Governor and Council of the Territory of Florida with an extract of a letter from Mess” Gowan & Marx by whom these memorials were forwarded to this country.
These Documents contain a Statement of the objects and wishes of the memorialist and will explain the reason of their transmission to your department The General Government have always been so scrupulous in discharging their admitted obligations that the memorialists cannot be mistaken in believing they will take care that their dependencies shall fulfill the contracts into which they have entered, especially as the loans made upon their credit have actually been expended in the

construction of public improvements which must at some period prove highly beneficial to the whole community”
With great respect I have the honor to be Your Obt Svt.
HENRY. I. WILLIAMS
THE HON” DANIEL WEBSTER. Secretary of State Washington
[Addressed] To the Hon" Daniel Webster Secretary of State Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Rec" 18 June H. I. Williams
[Enclosure]
Gowan and Marx to Henry I. Williams Extract of a letter from Gowan & Marx dated LONDON May 26*
1841
Accompanying this is a claim in the form of a petition upon the Government of the Territory of Florida for the payment of the Interest upon the Pensacola Banks Florida 6 p ct Signed by almost all the holders in this country A similar and simultaneous document proceeds about this time from Holland through a different channel on behalf of the holders of the same Bonds to the extent of $200.000
out of the $500,000 This petition is forwarded in order that each of the following parties may be served with a copy of it viz The Governor of the Territory, the President of the Legislative council M* Dan' Webster & M. Ewing These we commit to your care asking the favor of your forwarding each to its proper destination in proper form. In furnishing M Webster & M. Ewing with copies we consider that Congress acts as guardian to the Territory, and are in some degree responsible for its acts. This view is more particularly strengthened by the opinions set forth in the inaugural of your late lamented President General Harrison. He says among the other duties of a delicate character which the President is called upon to perform is the Supervision of the Government of the Territories”
of the United States. This although more particularly relating to the District of Columbia cannot be fairly applied to one territory to the exclusion of other We therefore feel we have a greater claim upon the interferance of the general government, when that Government acknowledges the duty that is incumbent upon them namely the supervision of the Territorial Goverments. We beg of you in

forwarding the copies to M Webster & M. Ewing to urge upon them this view of the case in addition to that on which all Americans should be most sensative viz good faith with the public creditor, which should be equally dear to them with their liberty, and which unless preserved untarnished must prove a fatal bar to their future prosperity, and in a complicated goverment like that of the United States the dishonor of one member cannot but reflect upon the whole
[Endorsed] Recd. with H. I. William's June 14*1841
[Subenclosure]
Memorial to the Legislative Council by Holders of Bank Bonds
[May 11, 1841]
To His Excellency the Governor and the Honorable the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida.
The Undersigned being holders of Bonds of the Bank of Pensacola guaranteed by the Territory of Florida beg leave respectfully to represent to you that the Interest due 1" January last on said Bonds has not been paid and from all the information they can collect they fear that the Bank of Pensacola is not in a condition to pay it or the future Interest that will become due. It becomes therefore necessary for them to apply to the Government of the Territory of Florida for payment of the same, as the Bonds have been purchased on the good faith of the said Government (all of them being duly signed by the Governor and Secretary) in reliance on which alone the Undersigned have become holders of the Security and without which guarantee the said Bonds could not have been negociated. And they have entire confidence that on this representation the Government will lose no time in taking such measures as will not only provide for the Interest now due but also prevent any future irregularities in the payment thereof.
With assurances of their high esteem they beg to subscribe themselves Your Obedient Servants.
LONDON 11" May 1841
Gowan & Marx Arden & Gurney for Divers Holders John Alleard Thomson Hankey & Co William Tritton H L Thomas Coults & Co for divers holders Ewart Taylor Co Greeson Co prL* Col. Clark S. Waymouth Major
[Endorsed] Recd. with H. I. Williams June 14th 1841.
563214–62–23

[Enclosure]
Statement of Hope and Company No 1—Copy [May 11, 1841]
The Undersigned for themselves and other holders of Bonds of the Bank of Pensacola guaranteed by the Territory of Florida, having been refused payment of the Interest due the 1* January last, on said Bonds are compelled to address themselves to the Government of the Territory of Florida and from their confidence in the faith of that Government, which indeed offered the principal inducement for investing their money in those securities, they feel convinced that their simple mentioning the fact of the non payment will be a sufficient stimulus for the Government of Florida to take immediate measures for the payment of the Interest now due and which will further successively become due on those Bonds and to prevent irregularities or demur so prejudicial to the Interest & credit of the Territory.”
AMSTERDAM 11" May 1841
S/ HoPE & Co.
[Endorsed] N°1—Rec" with E. J. Forstall's letter of Nov 29* 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[LC: Pensacola Gazette, Aug. 7, 1841]</source>
<place-time>[June 16, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>A PROCLAMATION BY THE GOVERNOR OF FLORIDA.
WHEREAS, it has been satisfactorily made to appear to me, that WILLIS ALSTON, who had been previously committed to the Jail of Leon county, on the charge of murder, was on the fifth day of June, of the present year, admitted to bail, and discharged by persons acting as Justices of the Peace, and that he is now going at large. And whereas it has been further made to appear, that the commissions of the persons acting and admitting said Alston to bail, had expired, and that they were not at that time aforesaid Justices of the Peace, and that their acts as such, are therefore null and void.
Now, therefore, in pursuance of law, I hereby offer a reward of TWO
HUNDRED DOLLARS for the arrest of the said Willis Alston, and his delivery to the Marshal of the Middle District of Florida. And I do hereby direct all the proper officers of this Territory to be vigilant in arresting said Alston and placing him in custody.

Given under my hand, and the seal of the Territory, [L. S.] at Tallahassee, this 16th day of June, A.D. 1841 *
R. K. CALL, Governor of Florida.
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO JAMES WHITCOMB</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Res. File, Box 26:ALS]</source>
<place-time>No 1. Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE June 16” 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I have received your letter of the 4" ins** with copies of two letters from Geo W. Cole Esq." Receiver at S*Augustine” & Colo Jos:
G. Totten Top. Engineer,” on the Subject of a proposed reservation for public use at or near Fernandina on Amelia Island, and in answer have the honor to report; in connection with the annexed Diagram of the Surveys made on the North end of Said Island—that no information of the scite of an old Fort, called San Carlos, or the precise location of the Town of Fernandina is attainable from the records of this office, nor yet from one of the Surveyors who has been consulted on the Subject. The safe anchorage alluded to by Colo Totten I believe to be in front of the redoubt and flag Staff laid down upon the Diagram and I believe the town to be Situate on the north west point of the Island within the private claim of the Heirs of John M*Queen—I give you this information founded upon my recollection, having visited that place in the year 1821 on my way to S' Augustine as Commissioner to receive (under the Treaty) East Florida from the Spanish authorities. I was then forcibly impressed with the indefensible locality of that village and would now recommend a reservation at the old redoubt to cover the anchorage; with Sections 8 and 11 on the north, which are divided by a township line with a view to command as far as practicable the entrance over the bar, the channel of which I believe to be near the Florida Shore.
Respectfully submitted ROBERT BUTLER Surr General To JAS: WHITCOMB Esq Comm G. L. Office
[Endorsed] S. G. Office Tallahassee Flor" 16 June 1841 Rob" Butler S. G. Ack" the rec" of the Comm” letter of 4" ins" with copies of two letters from Geo. W. Cole Esq. Rec' at S*Augustine & Col. Totten, Top. Engineer on the Subject of a proposed Reservation for pub. use at or near Fernandina on Amelia Island, & in Reply reports on the same, & encloses a diagram—N° 1. June 16" 1841. Duplicate for

the Comm” Gen' Land Office. Copy entered on the Diagram See Commissioners instructions to Su Gen' Reg & Rec. Feb. 14 1842*
W. T. S. Recd 26th June 1841
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, June 17* 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>J. S. SANCHEZ, Esqr. Marshal of East Florida, Saint Augustine, East Florida.
SIR, Since the instructions of the 15" of May * were issued for the removal of trespassers upon the military reserves at St Augustine, representations have been made by Mr. P. S. Smith * and General Hernandez, which have induced the Department to direct a partial suspension of proceedings. You will therefore await further directions from this Department before removing persons or property, from the strip of land along the Northern boundary of the reserve to which adverse claims are preferred.—With these exceptions you will proceed in the execution of your instructions, exercising all the forbearance and consideration recommended in my letter of the 15" ultimo.”
The representations above alluded to are to the effect, that the officers who were directed to point out to you the limits of the reserves, are not in possession of the information necessary to the correct performance of that duty; and this delay is directed, in order that the Department may transmit to them such documents from the records

of the General Land Office, as will enable them to determine, accurately and without danger of error, the boundaries of the Military reServes.
Copies of two letters from Mr. P. S. Smith * are enclosed for your further information.”
J. B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO PETER. S. SMITH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, June 19* 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>P. S. SMITH, Esqr. St Augustine, East Florida.
SIR. The Department has received from you, both directly and through General Hernandez, sundry remonstrances against the course it has taken with regard to the removal of trespassers from the Military reserve at St Augustine; and in consequence of these representations, the Department has directed the Marshal to suspend proceedings so far as relates to the strip of land along the Northern line of lot No 1. to which adverse claims have been preferred, until the matter shall be more fully investigated.
In order that you may understand the grounds upon which the previous orders were issued to the Marshal, I transmit herewith a copy of a letter from the Officer stationed at St Augustine;" upon whose statements entire reliance was placed."
J B.
KNOWLES, CLISBY AND SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF
</docbody>
<dochead>STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Florida Sentinel TALLAHASSEE. June 21, 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON. DANIEL WEBSTER, SIR, We have the honor to apprize you of the receipt of a letter from your Department, where dated 11 instant,” wherein we are ap-

pointed publishers of the laws of the U.S.—and of our acceptance of the proposals therein contained.
This paper is published by Knowles, Clisby and Smith, and to their joint order only (except in case of dissolution, &c.) should all dues accruing from this source be paid.
We shall endeavor, in all things to comply with the regulations of Gov. in reference to this matter. The Sentinel will be forwarded weekly to your Department.”
Very Respectfully Your Obedient Servant KNOWLES, CLISBY & SMITH
[Addressed] To the Hon. Daniel Webster Secretary of State Washington D. C. [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo. June 24 1841 Free
[Endorsed] Florida Sentinel, accepts, 1841. D. S. Rec" 1 July.
Mr Hill THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS F. FOSTER</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to Members of Cong., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>TREAS’ DEPARTMENT June 26, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON' T. F. FoSTER House of Reps Sir Your's of the 24th inst” in which you enquire “Whether it is proposed to remove the Surveyor General of Middle Florida, or whether his time of service expires within any short time” is now before me—In answer I have the honor to reply, there is a number of Applicants for the Post, Some charges against present incumbent,”
and his Commission expires the 11th of June 1844–
I am &c.
T. E. Sec'y of the Treasy

</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR CALL TO HOPE AND COMPANY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:C]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 28* June 1841–</place-time>
<docbody>MESSRS HOPE & CO.
GENTLEMEN I am in receipt of your letter of the 11" Ult." written in behalf of yourselves and other holders of Bonds, of the Pensacola Bank, informing me that the Interest due on them the first of January last has been refused and calling on the Government of Florida, to redeem its pledges: by the payment of the Interest now due, as well as to provide for the payment of that which may hereafter accrue.
It is admitted that the payment of the principal and Interest of the Bonds above demanded, has been guaranteed by this Territory.
But she stands to the Bondholders in the relation only, of a remote and contingent endorser, whose resposibility does not arise until after the failure of the Bank of Pensacola, and its respective Stockholders, who you will perceive by the amended charter of that Bank, are individually bound in their private fortunes to pay both the principal and Interest of these Bonds. Many of them are Gentlemen of very large fortune residing in New York, Philadelphia and Louisiana, and the laws of the respective States in which they live, will afford you the most ample relief for their delinquency.
I have every confidence in the honour of this Territory & believe she will in good faith redeem her resposibility when it shall have arisen, but in the character of a remote endorser, she will exact due diligence on the part of the Bond holders, in prosecuting their claims against the Bank and the Individual Stockholders, who are first bound, and who alone have had the advantage of the money, raised by the sale of the Bonds. I would therefore recommend to you, and other Bondholders to proceed at once, and without delay, by attachment against the assets of the Bank of Pensacola, as well as by action against the Individual Stockholders. I am induced to recommend the process of attachment against the Bank, because I have reason to believe that the Stockholders abroad are withdrawing the funds of the Bank, beyond the jurisdiction of this Territory, and appropriating them in a manner not authorized by the Charter. Should you be disposed to persue this course, you will not be at a loss to find faithfull agents here to protect your interest. I will myself with much pleasure aid you in the selection of such as are competent and worthy of confidence. You are sufficiently acquainted, no doubt, with your rights, and the remedies which the law will give you against the Bank and its Stockholders. But perhaps you are not so well, informed, of

the nature of the remedy you may have, against the Territory, should its responsibility accrue, to the Bondholders—It is therefore proper, that I should inform you, that, the Government of this Territory has no power whatever, to pay, or to provide the means of paying, either the principal or interest, on the Bonds which you hold, until authorized so to do, by the Legislature—The Legislative Council of this Territory meets annually on the first day of January, and holds usually a Session of two months—Its members are elected by the popular voice, to serve one Session only, except the Senate, which is elected to serve two Sessions. No money can be paid out of the Treasury by the Governor, for every purpose whatever without a special appropriation by the two houses composing the Legislative Council. Not having been informed of the delinquency of the Bank of Pensacola and its Stockholders, in not paying the Interest due on their bonds, until after the adjournment of the Legislative Council, on the 4th March last, no provision was made for that purpose.
In January next at the meeting of the Legislative Council, the subject shall be fully submitted to that Body, for such action as it may seem to them to require. Should the Legislature after viewing all the ground, be disposed to pay the interest now due, and to provide for the payment of such as may hereafter accrue, it must first create a revenue for that purpose, by taxation, or otherwise, and make a special appropriation of the fund. Thus you will perceive from the nature of our Institutions, under the most favourable circumstances, you would experience much delay and inconvenience, in obtaining redress from the Territory, who can only be reached through the voluntary act of the representatives of the people. You will therefore find it, I
apprehend, much more to your advantage, to procede at once against those who are immediately liable to you in an action at law—After the Bank of Pensacola, and its several Stock holders have been prosecuted to bankruptcy, should it then be necessary, I will use every effort in my power to redeem the faith of this Territory, but you will perceive from what I have already said, that the payment of any part of the principal, or Interest, on these Bonds, must depend on the will of the Legislature representing the people of Florida. Every possible facility will be given you, by the Government of this Territory, in prosecuting your claims against the Bank of Pensacola, and its Stockholders; and I have respectfully to request, that you will furnish me with the names of all the endorsers on the Bonds which you hold.”
I am Gentlemen Very Respectfully Your Obt. St.
MESSRS. HOPE & Co. Amsterdam
[Endorsed] N°2—Recd. with E. J. Forstall's letter of Nov 29th 1841.

</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR CALL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 276:C*]</source>
<place-time>(Copy.) TALLAHASSEE 29* June 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor herewith to enclose a copy of a letter which I have addressed to Major Wilson of the United States Army,” relative to the exposed condition of Middle Florida. Apprehensive he may not have authority, to adopt the suggestions I have made for the defence of the settlements, I have thought proper to submit them for your consideration, and ask that they may receive your early attention.
I assure you Sir, that the situation of this Country has never been more exposed to the assaults of the enemy, at any period of the War, than it is at the present time. There are but three Military Posts, and these garrisoned by Infantry, for the protection of the whole line of frontier extending from the Appalachicola river to the Suwanee, a distance of one hundred & thirty miles. The country south of this line to the Gulf of Mexico varying in depth from 20 to 130 miles, is almost an entire wilderness, of which the Indians have undisturbed possession.
They are known to be prowling in the immediate vicinity of each of the posts above mentioned, and the Troops, at least for some time past, have not been able to give them the least disturbance. They have with impunity robbed and murdered on the highway within eight miles of Camp Gamble.” and although this occurrence took place more than ten days since, and the Indians retreat from this scene of havock, in considerable force, with mules, laden with plunder, leaving a trail which might easily have been followed, up to the present time, as I believe, nothing more has been done than to bury the dead. The country south of the settlements, abounds with cattle, and the plantations of the border being without protection, cannot fail to invite the aproach of the Indians who it is known have been for some time past engaged in driving cattle, from this section of the country, across the Suwanee. Hitherto the attacks of the Indians have been confined to the white population, and it has been owing to this cause principally that, our planters have been enabled, to cultivate their crops and carry them to market in safety. But the recent murder of the Negro Wagon Drivers seems to indicate a different disposition on the part of the Indians. It has created much alarm among the planters, and if this mode of warfare is continued, it will cause the abandonment of many of the large plantations on the frontier, which have stood as a bulwark, against the advance of the Savages in our part of the Country. My personal knowledge of the localities of Middle Florida, * Enclosed in Worth to the Adjutant General, July 10, 1841.

enables me to speak with confidence of its exposed condition, and enclines me to call on you as the Commander of the United States forces in Florida for the necessary protection. Were I provided by the Government with the necessary supplies, I should not do so, as the people of the Country are able and willing, to defend themselves, but without arms, ammunition, provisions & forage, they are unable, and it cannot be expected of them, to hold the field against the common enemy.
In East Florida my information is less accurate, but I have every reason to believe that the inhabitants between the St. Johns and the Suwanee are no less exposed to danger, than those to the West of the last mentioned river. Several Murders were there committed during the last month, and every mail brings me letters from respectable Citizens, informing me of the presence of the Indians, and the peril to which the people are exposed. There is, I believe, no post on the Suwanee above Camp Fanning,” and none between Micanopy and the Ockafanoka Swamp. The Settlements are dispersed over the intervening country and scarcely any where except at Newnansville, sufficiently close, to be free from the danger of attack. There are large sections of uninhabited country between all the settlements, which afford hiding places for the Indians, from whence they can attack the neighboring inhabitants, with as little apprehension from the garrison at Micanopy, as they would entertain from the same number of men at New York. Almost the only byway across East Florida, which is travelled by persons going from the West, to St.
Augustine, is that from the Mineral Springs, on the Suwanee to Jacksonville on the St. Johns. This road is entirely without protection, and although the houses upon it are frequently twenty five or thirty miles from each other, and the Indians are known to infest the Country through which it passes, necessity compels many of our Citizens to travel it, though exposed to danger at every step.
I would therefore respectfully suggest, that a Post be garrisoned by Mounted men of some description, should be established on this road, at some convenient point, both for the protection of travellers, and the sparse population of that Section of Country. I have further to request that Fort White * & Fort Harley * may be reoccupied, with a mounted force, to be kept actively employed in scouting the neighboring Country and driving out the Indians.
I am fully aware, Sir, in the hardy enterprise in which you are engaged, in prosecuting an active Campaign against the enemy, you have full employment, both of mind and resources, and that

you can have but little time to devote to the defence of an extensive frontier, some hundred miles distant from the Scene of your operations. I have therefore taken the liberty of addressing you fully on this subject, and as a Soldier, I doubt not my suggestions will be received by you, in the same spirit in which they are made. I
am satisfied from the experience of the last five years, that Mounted men alone can be efficient as a guard for the frontier settlements.
And I feel the utmost confidence in the belief that 600 well appointed mounted men, enured as our people are to the climate and acquainted with the Country, would give the most ample protection to the whole frontier, from the St. Johns to the Appalachicola. The employment of such a force would enable you to carry a much larger number of Regular Troops to the Field, by which means you would much sooner be able to bring the war to a close. Should you be disposed to accept the Services of such a force it will afford me much pleasure, to furnish them in Companies or Battallions, to be placed under the command of such field Officers of the Army as you may designate.”
I am Sir, Very Respectfully, Your Ob" Sv"
(Signed) R. K. CALL
COL” W. J. WORTH U.S. Army Commander in Florida.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee, Florida 29 June 1841. Copy of R. K.
Call Governor of Florida to Col” W. J. Worth Comm" Army of Florida No. 1. Detailing the situation of Middle & East Florida and urging the necessity of the presence of a force for their protection. He Qrs. Army Florida Tampa July 13/41 S Cooper Ast Adj" Gnl. 276 Col. Worth 26. July. 1841.
PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR CALL
[FSL:Terr. Gov.rs. Let. Bk.:M *]
TALLAHASSEE July 1” 1841
BY THE GOVERNOR:
A Proclamation Whereas an election was held on the first Monday in May last, to choose a delegate, to represent the Territory of Florida in the Congress of the United States, and whereas it appears from the returns of the Inspectors of Said election now on file in the office of the Secretary of said Territory that David Levy had a majority of all the votes given at said election.
Now therefore be it known that I do hereby declare and proclaim that the said David Levy has been duly elected to represent this

Territory in Congress for two years, from and after the first monday in May last.”
Given under my hand and the Seal of the Territory this SEAL First day of July AD 1841
</docbody>
<dochead>RICHARD K CALL Gov. of Florida THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO L. W. SMITH</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXI]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE. 8*July 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>L. W. SMITH Esqr Attorney of U.S. for S Dist of Florida. Key West.
SIR, Your letter to the President of the 28* June,” having been perused by him, has been transferred to this Department. The popular violences as you describe them, perpetrated upon Capt Cottrell, are such as strike at the foundations of all Law and order.
It is impossible to enjoy any security for life, liberty, or property, if such outrages be overlooked; and the President directs me to give a special instruction to yourself and other Law officers appointed by this Government, to exert themselves fearlessly and to the utmost of their ability, to bring offenders of this sort to condign punishment.
The protection of the peaceable and the innocent, and the general welfare and reputation of the Territory, all require that the supremacy of the Laws should be maintained, and no officer charged with the duty of keeping the peace, or of prosecuting the violators, can receive the President's approbation who shall be found guilty of any degree of delinquency in this respect.
I am &c D. W.
</docbody>
<dochead>C. E. BARTLETT TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE July 10 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON DANL. WEBSTER
Sir, Having received your notice under date of 30th June, * which come to hand last evening, that the “Star,” printed at Tallahassee, of which paper I am the publisher, had been Selected for publishing

the orders, resolutions, and laws, of the 1st Session of the 27th Congress, I take the earliest opportunity of conveying to you an expression of my readiness to accept of the appointment, and my willingness to comply with all the customs which have heretofore governed Such publications.
The undersigned is the Editor and Sole proprietor of the above named paper, and is alone authorised to receive compensation for the publications made as above.
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servant C E BARTLETT Editor & Proprietor Star of Florida
[Addressed] Hon. Daniel Webster Dept of State Washington City
[Postmarked] Tallahassee Flo" Free
[Endorsed] Florida The Star, accepts, July 10, 1841. Rec" 19 July.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS T. RUSSELL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST. AUGUSTINE July 12, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR:—I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication, dated June 30" "Selecting “The News,” for publishing the orders, Resolutions, and Laws, passed during the first session of the twenty-seventh Congress. I accept of the appointment;—
informing you, at the same time, that I am the Publisher, and alone authorised to receive compensation."
I am, Sir, your most obe’t. Serv't.
THOS. T. RUSSELL
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State Washington, D.C.
[Addressed] Hon. Daniel Webster, Secretary of State, Washington, D.C. [Postmarked] St. Augustine Fl. T. Jul 13 Free
[Endorsed] The News, S' Augustine accepts 1841 Rec" 25 July.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, JAG, Mil. Reservation File:LS]</source>
<place-time>OFFICE OF ATTY GENERAL July 16* 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, From your letter of the 13" Inst:" & the papers which accompanied it, it appears that under the provisions of the Act of March

1807,” instructions were given through your Department, by direction of the President, for the removal of intruders from certain public lands at St Augustine, reserved for military purposes, and that the Marshall of that District on proceeding to execute those instructions had been served with a writ of injunction issued out of the Superior Court of the Territory of Florida, upon the application & complaint of individuals occupying & claiming portions of the same lands."
You are pleased to request my opinion “as to what extent the Marshall is legally bound to defer the execution of the orders above mentioned while the injunction remains in force.”
The Court that granted this injunction was had competent jurisdiction, and that alone is sufficient to entitle its process to obedience–The court may, in this instance, have erred in the exercise of its jurisdiction, but the Marshall is not judge of that—While the writ of injunction remains in force, he is legally bound to obey it, and to desist from the execution of the orders above mentioned, exactly to the extent & requirement of that writ—It is scarcely necessary to add that the injunction legally restrains the Marshall only to the extent which it describes & specifies, and that it as to all the lands embraced in the Presidents orders & not in the injunction, it is the duty of the Marshall to execute those orders.
Very respectfully Yr's &c J J CRITTENDEN
HON: JOHN BELL Secty: at War
[Addressed] Hon: John Bell Secty. at War
[Endorsed] Recorded, page 243 Atty Gen Book 22
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets to Members of Cong., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>TREAS’ DEPARTMENT July 20*1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON D LEVY House of Representatives, U.S
SIR In reply to the enquiry presented by your letter of the 14th inst,” which reached me yesterday, I have to remark, that no application for funds to meet the expenses of the last Spring Terms of the Court in the Apalachicola District Florida, has been received at this

Office from Mr. Gautier, the Marshall of that District.—He appears by information from the 1st Auditors Office that at the last adjustment of his accounts, the balance on account of his expenditures, reported to be in his hands was $.738.85—I have only to add that upon Mr. Gautiers request immediate attention will be given to the subject of a remittance to him on account of the expenses of Courts of the U.S: &c. to such an extent as it may be deemed that the public interest requires, having reference to the existing balance in favor of the United States—
Very respectfully &c.
T. E. Secy of the Treay 
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOHN G. CAMPAS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals' Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[July 22, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability and Diligence of JOHN G. CAMP I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Middle District of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the JOHN G. CAMP for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission."
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 22" Day of July in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the sixty sixth.
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, DANL. WEBSTER Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>GEORGE T. WARD TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON CITY 24. July 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON THE SECRETARY OF STATE, SIR I have to ask of your department that the “Apalachicola Journal” newspaper be authorized to publish the laws of the United States. This newspaper is published at the most important Sea port town in Florida and indeed after New Orleans and Mobile the most important on the whole of our Gulf Coast, as well in respect of the revenue of the United States, as of commerce and trade generally. It will be perceived that the Laws of the U. States are at present published only in Tallahassee & S* Augustine. In consequence of the remoteness geographically of these places from each other and from the South & Western parts of the Territory, and the general irregularity of mail transportation, West Florida is deprived almost entirely of the advantages intended by promulation of the Laws. The commerce at Apalachicola is equal to that of all the other Gulf Seaports in Florida. The newspaper which I have named deserves the patronage of the Government as well for its general respectability as for its adherence to the doctrines of the present administration*
Respectfully Yr Obt Servt GEO. T. WARD
[Addressed] The Hon. Dan Webster Secretary of State. Washington D. C.
[Endorsed]. “Apalachicola Journal” recommended, July 24, 1841
To be appointed for next Session (2" of 27* Congress.)
</docbody>
<dochead>NATHAN SARGENT TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON July 28, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON GEO. E. BADGER Secty of the Navy, SIR. Having been charged by you with the duty of preserving from waste removal &c, the timber growing on the Public Lands in East Florida, and specially the Live Oak; and having proceeded to Florida for the purpose, I found myself at once embarrassed in the discharge of my duties by causes which I will as briefly as possible State.
The Timber reserved for public use consists of Hammocks of Live Oak scattered over nearly the whole of East Florida but particularly

near the coast & along and near the streams navigable for vessels or batteaux. The reservations made by the agents sent out for that purpose have never been surveyed nor plotted upon any map, and through described perhaps as accurately as they could be without such survey it is impossible to know their bounds for in fact they have none defined: and in case a private grant happen to lie contiguous, it would be out of the power of the Agent, were the owner of this grant cutting timber to determine whether he were within his own limits or trespassing on the public land. As a lawyer you know the difficulty of defending what is not defined. These private grants, very many of which have been confirmed to the claimants by the Territorial courts, are also scattered over the whole extent of E. Florida, and in some cases bound upon the public reservations and perhaps in part cover them; and as neither have ever been surveyed & their boundaries marked, a serious difficulty meets the Agent at the very threshold of his duties, & this difficulty must continue to exist until the country is surveyed, & the private grants & the public reservations properly called & bounded.
But suppose this difficulty surmounted, the Agent has at present no means of going from place to place along the coast, up the creeks and inlets where vessels would be likely to Secrete themselves, nor from Key to Key, to look for trespassers. A coast of some six or seven hundred miles in extent, from Amelia Island on the North &
East round the Southern point of the Peninsula, up past Tampa Bay to the Mouth of the Suwanee, on the west, including the numerous Keys, some of them thirty miles in extent, that lie scattered round the southern part of Florida, is committed to his charge, while a very large portion, say nine tenths of it, at least, is an entire wilderness, and inaccessible at present, by land. How is he to guard all this coast
& these Islands from depredation? True, he has the privilege of passing to & fro in the public steam boats, but he must confine his movements to theirs, visit the places they visit, go when they go &
return when they return, and as they go only from one military post to another without touching at intermediate places along the coast or on the St John's River, and as trespassers will take special care to avoid these places, it is to little purpose that the Agent avails himself of this privilege.
As there is seldom an evil without some resulting good, in the present case, the Indian war, a most grevious and lamentable evil, performs the duty of the Agent in the Southern part, & indeed in nearly the whole of E. Florida, more effectually than he could perform it himself under the most favorable circumstances, and so long as the Indians occupy the country, there is no danger of the Live Oak Timber
563214–62–24

being cut & carried away. The same cause will of course deter the Agent from exposing his life among the Hammocks.
From what I have said you will probably come to the conclusion that, for the present, at least, the Agency might as well be abolished, or the duties & salary of the Agent suspended. Although I am the incumbent of the office, my own sense of what is due to the Government & to frankness, compels me to say that to this conclusion my mind has also arrived after looking at the subject in its various bearings. I know the President & his administration are desirous to carry out the principle of Retrenchment in all cases where it can be done without detriment to the public interests, and I cannot but admit that I think this a proper case for the application of that principle, although I may be the sufferer by it.
I will take the liberty however, to suggest, that as there may be some Hammocks of Live Oak more exposed to trespassers than those which lie in the immediate vicinity of the Indians, and as some of the public lands covered with pine timber are exposed to the depredations of the owners of sawmills—especially on the St John's River, in case the suggestion above made should be adopted, the duty of protecting the public timber be assigned to some one or more of the public officers now in the Territory, and a small compensation allowed therefor in addition to their present emoluments which are very small.
Should the Agency be hereafter re established it will be indispensable that the Agent be allowed the use of a small vessel—say of 60 or 70 tons burden, and three or four men to navigate her, with which to cruise along the coast and among the Keys, look into the creeks and inlets
&c.; and he should also be authorised to appoint assistants, say four or five with a very small compensation, at different points of the coast to watch trespassers & give notice of their depredations. Without all this, so soon as the Indians are driven from the country it would be morally impossible for him to protect the Timber from depredators.
I will take the liberty further to remark, that great caution should be used in selecting a person to take charge of the public Timber; for if he be not one whose integrity is above temptation, the opportunity he would have of colluding with trespassers and thereby filling his pocket at the expense of that which he was sent to protect, might overcome his sense of duty to the Government. The situation of the Timber in E. Florida & its great value, offer strong inducements to dishonest practices on the part of the Agent.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully, Sir, Your Obdt Servt N. SARGENT Agent of the Public Timber in E. Florida
[Endorsed] Sargent 28 July 1841 Sargent 28 July 1841 Report of

N. Sargent Esq Timber agent for E. Florida July 28–1841. Agency discontinued 1 Sep 1841 "S44 Aug 30 Cal THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE SECRETARY
</docbody>
<dochead>OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. on Rev. Marine:LS]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT 30" July 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to transmit the authority of the President, for the transfer of the Revenue Cutter Jefferson, Madison and Van Buren, to the jurisdiction of this Department for the purpose of being employed, in connection with the naval force on the Coast of Florida, in the suppression of Indian hostilities, in cooperation with the army, and to request that you will be pleased to return it to this Department when the necessary action shall have been taken on the subject."
I am, very respectfully Your obdt Servt.
GEO. E. BADGER
HON. THOMAS EWING Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] prepare the necessary orders T. E.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets on Rev. Marine:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON July 30" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON" THOMAS EWING Secretary of the Treasury.
SIR I have the honor to enclose a letter from Sam' Reid,” deputy collr—of the Port of St Marks Florida, Stationed at Tampa Bay—
Mr Reid is an inteligent man, of high character, and a most active and vigelent officer. I have long believed that the spanish fishing smaks suppled the The Florida Indians with arms & amunition I
sent to the Hon” Secretary of War a few days since a letter from a gentleman, who has resided at Key West and has lately been on the coast from Tampa Bay, to Key West, in which he states it as a fact, * See post, p. 421.

that these spanish fishermen—are constantly in the habit of supplying the Indians with arms & amunition—If your judgement should approve the proposition of furnishing to the deputy collector a larger, boat with two more hands than he now has it would be highly benificial to our country, by cutting off the supplies which I entertain no doubt are furnished by these spanish fishermen. Gov" Call can no doubt give you some valuable information, on this subject that I do not possess—He is I believe now at Philadelphia, on a visit to his daughter but will in a few days be here again I am with much respect your obt serv"
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] Hon” Thomas Ewing Secretary of the Treasury Washington
[Endorsed] D. 235 July 31 M*Ginnis THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, July 31* 1841</place-time>
COL: W. J. WORTH. Commdg. Army of Florida Tampa Flo.
SIR; I am directed by the Major General, Commanding the Army to communicate to you the following opinion of the President received through the Secretary of War, relative to the Resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives of the 1* of February 1836,” respecting the relief of the “suffering inhabitants” in Florida by the issue of rations from the public stores.
“The relief contemplated may properly embrace the cases of those in a necessitous condition who may penetrate for settlement, such portions of Florida as have been infested and desolated by the enemy, and thus deprived of the supplies essential for the support of settlers during the necessary preparations for raising the means of subsistence at their selected homes.”
The above opinion is communicated to you for the government of those concerned, and you are hereby authorized to take such measures as may, in your judgment, be best calculated to carry into effect the provisions of Congress, reporting all your proceedings for the information of the Department of War.”
I am sir, &c.
E. SCHRIVER, A.A. Gen.'

</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE BALCH TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Resignations:ALS]</source>
<place-time>NEW PORT [Rhode Island] 5th August 1841</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES-
SIR, In consequence of exessive labor in the discharge of my official duties as Judge of the U States for the District of Middle Florida I
fell sick with a dangerous attack of bilious fever and was advised by my phyician to come north that I might if possible recover my health.
I came from Charleston to New York by water at which city I lay sick for several weeks under the professional care of D* Delafield who advised me to come here. I am far from being restored and had I
not cherished the hope of getting well I should have resigned my office of Judge several weeks ago—That resignation I have tendered to the Secretary of State” and I hereby reiterate it to you the President of the U States.
I am very respectfully Your obt ser"
ALFRED BALCH
[Addressed] Honble John Tyler President of the U States, Washington City. [Postmarked] New Port R.I. Aug 6 Free
[[Endorsed] A. Balch resigns. August 5” 1841 (See previous resignation to Secy of State.) Alfred Balch resigns his Judship Middle Florida 75
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Commissions, E 2]</source>
<place-time>[August 11, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, president of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity and Ability of RICHARD. K. CALL, of Florida I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," do appoint him Governor in and for the Territory of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto of right appertaining, unto him, the said RICHARD K. CALL, for the term of three years from the day of the date hereof unless, the President

of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the 11" day of August in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Sixty sixth.”
JOHN TYLER, By the President:
DAN WEBSTER Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Augt. 20" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>COL: W. J. WORTH Com. Army of Flo. Tampa Flo.
SIR; The Major General directs me to communicate to you the following instructions received from the Department of War.
The Governor of Florida has recently represented to the Department that numerous murders &c. have been committed by wandering savages in Florida, within the last few months, and earnestly requested the services of a militia or volunteer force, for the protection of the border inhabitants of that Territory.”
It is possible that the distance of your Head Quarters from the scenes of these reported barbarities, together with the absorbing nature of your duties in the interior, may have prevented you from receiving full information on this subject, and it is therefore suggested that you invite an interview with the civil executive authority of the territory, under such circumstances as your duties may enable you to designate, in order to learn the views of the Governor directly from himself, to the end that such additional measures may be adopted as may be calculated to give security and protection to the people.
You are requested to consider whether this can be effected by detachments from the Army now under your command without embarrassing your operations in the more Southern parts of the Territory. If this cannot be done, it is not doubted that a due regard to the means necessary to the success of general operations, 

as well as the safety of the people in the northern districts, will induce you to adopt some other effective plan, and, if necessary, to exercise the authority communicated to you in the instructions from this office, dated May 19** and call into the public service a limited militia force, under such circumstances as you may judge proper, associating such force with the regular army, North and West of the Suwannee, or, assigning a particular section of the country exclusively to be protected be the militia, as you may deem best calculated to effect the desired object. But, in the event of calling the militia into service of the United States, all disbursements on account of it will be made, and all supplies thro’ the Quarter Master's and other Staff Departments, will be furnished, by officers of the regular army, assigned to the several duties by you, and the whole force will be exclusively under your command.
I am sir, &c.
L. THOMAS, A. A. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO WILLIAM ARMSTRONG</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 31]</source>
<place-time>O.I.A. 24th August 1841</place-time>
<docbody>MAJOR W" ARMSTRONG Choctaw Agency. West of Arkansas.
SIR. I received your letter of 17th ulto,” calling my attention to the claim of the Apalachicola Indians, emigrated by Daniel Boyd, to be paid for their improvements according to his valuations—a copy of a certificate of one of which you enclose me.”
You are correct in saying that the objection to paying these claims was that the $15.400. mentioned in the 2d article of the Treaty of Payne's Landing, was not applicable to their discharge—but belonged to the Seminoles, and although the Apalachicola and Seminole Indians may be regarded as one tribe, when spoken of as Florida Indians, yet it is quite clear to my mind that an error was committed in supposing, as was done in July 1838, that the former had any claim upon the $15.400 fund.” To put this matter to rest, as I
think a full understanding of the subject must do, I will remark that this office seems to have thought in February 1838 precisely as I do now, as appears by a letter of that date to George Walker, * Printed, Sprague, Fla. War, pp. 266–267.

of which I send you a copy.” I, also, accompany this communication by a copy of an opinion drawn up by myself, on 12 July 1839. which goes into detail on this subject, and I think shows conclusively that the fund of $15.400 is payable to the Seminoles alone. This opinion was expressed briefly in a letter to you of Nov 12th 1839.” I will thank you to explain this matter fully to the Apalachicolas, and satisfy them that the Department has no power to apply any part of the above money to pay for their improvements. It would be a misapplication of an exclusively Seminole fund to their use, which could not be justified.
The error commenced, in my opinion, in the letter of instructions, of 18th July 1838, to Daniel Boyd,” who valued the Apalachicola improvements &c in which the mistaken opinion is expressed that
“so soon as the required amounts for improvements and cattle can be ascertained, a remittance will be made for the purpose of those payments.” The 5th article of the Treaty made at Payne's Landing, on the 9th May 1832," would extend to the Apalachicolas, but M’
Boyd, in a communication to this office, of 3d Feb” 1839,” says, “no cattle were turned over to me nor property of any kind save the improvements embraced in the accompanying certificates—”
still a claim for this species of property would not be in lien on the
$15.400, but would require a seperate appropriation by Congress.
The letter of instructions alluded to and the certificate issued by M" Boyd in accordance therewith certainly contain (as appears by the copy of one sent by you) a promise to pay the Apalachicolas for their improvements—but I do not find any treaty stipulation to that effect. The whole proceeding grew out of the erroneous idea that the Apalachicola Indians were entitled to come in, under the
2d article of the treaty of Payne's Landing for the $15.400. Still as the promise has been made and the Indians will be dissatisfied if there is not a compliance with it, I will ask Congress at its next regular session for an appropriation of the amount necessary to meet these valuations amounting to some $3000—they may be a little more or less as I have not cast them up—but as these claims rest entirely on the promise of my predecessor, it will be in the discretion of Congress to grant or refuse the appropriation.
If granted immediate measures will be taken for their payment.

This be pleased to explain to the Indians particularly, and assure them I will do all I can, properly, to procure the amount of the Legislature, as I have the strongest desire to perform to the letter every promise made to them.
T.H.C.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 367:LS]</source>
<place-time>No. 51. H" Qurs. Army of Florida TAMPA August 31st. 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, By reference to special order No 38, already transmitted, and to the enclosed copy of a letter to Mr J Carter, mail contractor, it will be found that measures were taken as early as the 17" to give protection to the mail route refered to in M* Levy's communication of the 10" inst. to the Honorable the Secretary of War.”
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Yr. ob" Servt.
W. J. WORTH Colonel Commanding THE ADJUTANT GENERAL U.S. ARMY Head Quarters Washington
[Endorsed] No 51 Head Qrs. Ay of Florida Tampa Aug' 31. 1841
W. J. Worth Col. Com* Relative to protection to the Mail riders—
ack" Sept13 Septr.: 13, 1841
[Enclosure]
Samuel Cooper to Jesse Carter Head Qrs. Army of Florida TAMPA Aug’t 17. 1841
SIR: I am instructed by the Col" Comm” to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 6" inst, this day received, and in reply thereto to send you the enclosed copy of an order by which you will find that the suggestions made by you respecting a mounted force, to be stationed at the points indicated in your letter, for the purpose of giving protection to the mail & the neighboring inhabitants, have been complied with *
Very Respy Yr obt Servt
(Sigd) S. COOPER Asst A. Genl Mr J CARTER Mail contractor Alligator Columbia Coy
[Endorsed] Head Qrs. Army of F" Tampa, Aug 17. 1841 Major Cooper to Mr J. Carter Mail contractor Copy for the Adjutant General. S. Cooper Asst. Adj. Gen 367. Col: Worth 13 Sepr: 1841

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets to Members of Cong., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, September 1st, 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>HONBLE. T. LEVY Of the House of Representatives of the United States SIR, In reply to your letter of the 29th Ulto ” which was received this day, I have the honor to remark that on the 10th Ulto a warrant issued in favor of Peter W. Gautier Esq. Marshal for the Appalachicola District of Florida, for the sum of $3,000, on account of expences of Courts of the U.S. &c. which remittance was directed to be made to him in answer to a letter received from him on that day.
The attention of the first Auditor of the Treasury will be immediately requested to an adjustment of Mr. Gautier's accounts, and also those of T. B. Brown Esq. Marshal for the [Blank] District of Florida agreeably to the wishes expressed in your letter in their behalf.
Very Respectfully, &c. I remain Yr. Obt. Sevt.
THOMAS EWING. Secretary of the Treasury.
</docbody>
<dochead>ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON  TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters Sent, PLC, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE September 7" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>ROB" BUTLER Esq Su Gen.' Tallahassee Florida.
SIR: My attention has been called to your communications of the
12" of May ” & 8* July last * in reference to the Survey of the
“Forbes purchase” &c.
You will proceed to the Completion of that Survey with all convenient despatch & make your return to this Office as Soon as practicable.—
A Separate plat exhibiting the Survey of the purchase on Such a Scale as will enable you to exhibit it on a folio post page accompanied by the field notes of Survey should be transmitted to this Office with a Diagram exhibiting the Connexions of the grant with the Contiguous Surveys.

As requested in your letter of the 12* of May I herewith also enclose Copies of the report of the Commissioners to this Office bearing date the 15" of February 1830, and of the plan of the town of St Marks therewith submitted, according to which a part of the lots were advertised for Sale by proclamation of the President of the 21* of November 1834 but were afterwards withdrawn & not offered.
Your suggestion to have the private Claim, and the town lots Surveyed simultaneous for the reasons stated in your letters is approved.
In reply to your inquiry as to the Compensation to be allowed, I have to state for your information, that for the ten towns of one Section each, Surveyed in Alabama under an Act of Congress some years since, the price of one dollar and twenty five cents per lot was paid by the Surveyor General of the State, and appears to have been allowed in the Settlement of his accounts. You will be expected however to exercise your judgement in the matter and after considering all the circumstances fix the price to be allowed in this Case, having due regard to the public interest and a proper enconomy.”
Very Respectfully, Your Obt Servant E. M. HUNTINGTON Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF THOMAS H. DUVAL AS SECRETARY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Commissions, E 2]</source>
<place-time>[September 13, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity and Abilities of THOMAS H. DUVAL, I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," do appoint him Secretary in and for the territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto of right appertaining, unto him, the said THOMAS H. DUVAL, for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L. S. made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the thirteenth day of September in the year of our Lord one

thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Sixty Sixth.”
JOHN TYLER.
By the President:
DANIEL WEBSTER. Secretary of State.
COMMISSION OF SAMUEL W. CARMACK AS JUDGE
(APALACHICOLA DISTRICT)
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[September 13, 1841]</place-time>
JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of SAMUEL W. CARMACK, I have nominated and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate" Do appoint him Judge of the United States for the Apalachicola district, in the Territory of Florida. and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said SAMUEL W, CARMACK, for four years from the day of the date hereof.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L. S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the city of Washington, the thirteenth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independance of the United States of America, the sixty sixth.”
JOHN TYLER, By the President, DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF EBENEZER DORR AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (WESTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[September 13, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER: President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these preserts, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of EBENEZER DORR. I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Western district of Florida. and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said EBENEZER DORR
for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters
[L.S.] to be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the thirteenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty Sixth."
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF WALKER ANDERSONAS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (WESTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys' Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[September 13, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of WALKER ANDERSON, I have nominated, and, 

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” Do appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Western district of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the same with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments thereto of right appertaining, unto him, the said WALKER ANDERSON for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the thirteenth Day of September, in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty sixth.*
JOHN TYLER
By the President, DANIEL WEBSTER. Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING SECRETARY OF WAR TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON, Sept. 15” 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>COLONEL W. J. WORTH, Commanding the Army of Florida, Tampa, East Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 19” ultimo, addressed to Major General Scott," relative to negroes coming in with the Indians and claimed by their alleged former owners, has been submitted to the President.
The instructions of the Secretary of War of the 12" of last March to General Armistead" meet the whole case presented, except the question of the delivery to their rightful owners of such slaves as can be given up without an infraction of any agreement with the Indians or injuriously affecting the process of emigration. Your opinions on this point entirely coincide with those of the President, *Nominated Sept. 3, 1841, confirmed Sept, 13, 1841 (Senate, Exec. Journal, V, 425,439–400).

with whom the reasons assigned by you are conclusive as to the impolicy and danger of permitting any of the negroes to remain in Florida.
You are therefore authorized to remove them all with the Indians.
You will, however, by the aid of a board of Officers, or in such other way as you may deem proper, carefully investigate all claims that may be preferred, keeping a register of the names of the claimants of the slaves and of the particular Indians holding them; upon which register the estimated value of each slave will be noted. In this estimate it will be proper to consider the difficulty and expense which would have attended the recovery of the slave and to make a correspondent deduction from his intrinsic value. It must be understood, however, that this investigation is not to commit the Government for the payment of these claims, but is intended only for its information, and for the basis of any proceedings hereafter which it may seem expedient and proper to adopt when all the circumstances in regard to them shall be fully known.
A. M. LEA, Acting Secretary of War.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>Department of War, WASHINGTON Sept. 17” 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXCELLENCY R. K. CALL, Governor of Florida, Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR, In acknowledging your letter of the 1" inst." I have the honor to state that your anxiety respecting the security of the citizens of Florida is duly appreciated and that your representations and suggestions will always be treated with the high consideration they deserve.
The recent favorable intelligence from Florida induces the gratifying anticipation that all cause of anxiety will soon be removed by the submission and emigration of the Indians; but so long as any remain, the Department will faithfully continue its efforts to protect the citizens from their attacks and ravages.
The Department regrets that it does not feel authorized to sanction the calling out a force of militia. It would not be justified in so doing either by the present state of affairs in Florida or in view of the manifest disinclination of Congress at its last session to appropriate more than was barely sufficient to meet expenditures already incurred in the employment of this species of force.

The attention of the officer commanding in Middle Florida will immediately be called to the movements of the Indians and he will be instructed to adopt the most efficient measures for capturing them or expelling them from that part of the Territory, always, in the meantime, guarding against the possible recurrence of such aggressions on their part.
It is sincerely hoped that you have been greatly misinformed as to the number of murders perpetrated since my last.
A. M. LEA, Acting Secretary of War.
</docbody>
<dochead>L. W. SMITH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Key West, FLORIDA Sept. 17. 1841</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HONORABLE DANIEL WEBSTER Secretary of State.
SIR. About the first of July last I addressed a package to His Excellency the President of the United States,” wherein, among other things, I alleged, & concisely set forth the facts upon which the allegation was based, that property wrecked upon this coast had never adequate protection & very often none at all; & that such property amounted in value to several hundred thousand dollars annually.
I also suggested a means by which a remedy might be applied.
As yet, however, I have received no reply to that communication; &
having forwarded it by a transient vessel via Boston, I fear that it never reached the President.”
Since that time another case has occurred here under circumstances which leave no doubt in my mind that property to the value of from
$5,000 to $15,000 has been sacrificed for the want of due protection.
This cannot be possitively proved; but the combination of circumstances is so strong as to leave no doubt in a rational mind, that could the property sacrificed be found & libeled it would be restored to the original owners.
If my late package has not been received, & you consider this a proper subject for the consideration of the Department of State, I
shall be pleased to lay before you a full statement of facts whenever it shall best suit your convenience to receive it.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Your Obdt. Servt.
L. W. SMITH U. S. Attorney for the Southern Dist. of Florida
[Endorsed] Rec Sept 27 Mr Dickins L. W. Smith

</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE BROCKENBROUGH TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Resignations:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON Sept. 27. 1841</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EX. JOHN TYLER President of the U. States SIR With sentiments of gratitude for the honour which you have done me by appointing me to the office of Judge of the Middle District of Florida," I regret to say that I am compelled solely by the utter inadequacy of the compensation to meet my necessary expenditure, to decline its acceptance.—
Feeling a very deep interest in this appointment and knowing its great importance to the people of Florida, I trust your Excellency will pay no regard to the idle clamor of those who want offices for which they are incompetent, and contend that all appointments must be made from Florida, whether we have a man suitable or not.
I am satisfied that we have no man suitable for this office, and every lawyer and other person with whom I have conversed upon the subject, has agreed with me—I can recommend none, and protest in the strongest terms against the appointment of any of those whose recommendations are on file in the State Department—There is not one of them who would be tolerable to the bar or people or would do any credit to the administration, and the appointment of some of them would be disgraceful.
All we ask is an honest man and one who has a reasonable degree of legal knowledge, and a capacity for comprehending legal reasoning and we shall never ask from what—part of the country he comes—If he is a man of sense he will soon become a Floridian.
As we have no one now fit for the station—I hope none will be appointed from Florida.
I take this occassion to impress again in the most earnest upon the President the importance of the appointment of George S Hawkins to be District Attorney of Middle Florida, and to renew my assurances of the highest respect &c of your obt serv"
Wm H. BROCKENBROUGH
[Addressed] To His Ex: John Tyler President U.S. Washington DC
[Endorsed] Judge For Mid. Florida Brockenbrough W.H. declines Sep 27. 1841 remarks on the appointment of a successor.

</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE EDITOR OF THE FLORIDIAN</dochead>
<source>[LC:Tallahassee, The Floridian, Oct. 23, 1841]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON, October 8, 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR: The enclosed copy of a letter from the P. O. Department, I send to you for publication. The information will probably be acceptable. The new route proposed will accommodate a large portion of Columbia, Madison and Jefferson Counties, which have been heretofore almost excluded from the benefit of the mail arrangement.—The commencement will be at Alligator instead of Mineral Springs. I wish publicity given to it, in order that the inhabitants upon the route may be consulting as to the most convenient locations for Post Offices. Their petitions for offices will be attended to without delay.
By this arrangement, the route from Pulaski to Troupville will be discontinued, but the new route will connect with the Troupville mail at Cherry Lake P. O. in Madison County, which will be equally convenient to the inhabitants of Hamilton Co. as the present arrangement. Respectfully, Y’r ob’t serv’t.
D. LEVY.
EDITOR OF THE FLORIDIAN.
[Enclosure:Pr.]
William H. Dundas to Delegate Levy POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, Contract Office, October, 1841.
DEAR SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the Contractor on Route No. 2481, Troupville to Pulaski, has been written to with the view of effecting the change in the route suggested by you, viz. to commence at Mineral Springs and run by Upper Mineral Springs, Pulaski, Rossiter's Ferry, and Cherry Lake to Monticello." Whenever his answer is received, the case will be promptly acted on by the Department.
Very respectfully, Your obe’t servant, WM. H. DUNDAS, For 1st Ass’t P. M. General.
HON. MR. LEVY, Ho. of Representatives, Washington.

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF SAMUEL J. DOUGLAS AS JUDGE (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[October 12, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of SAMUEL J. DOUGLASS, I do appoint him Judge of The United States for The Middle District of Florida—and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said SAMUEL J. DOUGLASS, until the end of the next session of The Senate and no longer.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 12" day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one—and of the Independance of the United States of America, the Sixty sixth.”
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, FLETCHER WEBSTER, acting Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (EASTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals' Temp. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[October 19, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ I do appoint him Marshal of the United States for the Eastern District of Florida, and

do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law: and to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said JOSEPH S. SANCHEZ during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the United States, and no longer."
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the 19* day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Sixty sixth JOHN TYLER, By the President: -
FLETCHER WEBSTER, Acting Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN M. MOORE TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>October 20th 1841–</place-time>
<docbody>To ROBERT BUTLER Esq Surveyor General Tallahassee Flor. Ter.
SIR I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 6" instant," in which you state, that you have had a diagram made of the reservation and Town of St Marks and find “that there is a considerable amount of Land without its limits for the future extention of the town, and that the only interference will be the 10 acre donation to the Tallahassee Rail Road Company, which you find will break upon the plan to some little extent.” In reply I have to state, that as the original report and plan of the town of St. Marks submitted to this Office, bearing date the 15" of February 1830, contemplated future enlargement of the town on the East, North and West, it is suggested whether in the survey now to be made the original plan had not better be at once extended through the vacant lands intercepted between the lines laid down on the Map and the private claim.
As regards the interference of the ten acres granted to the Rail Road Company by the act of 3" of March 1835" the location of which was approved by the President on the 25" of June 1835. sub-

sequent to the date of the original plan of the Town, and to the acts of Congress of the 2" March 1833 " and the 30th June 1834,” the first authorizing the President of the United States to cause the town to be laid off and sold, providing also that “he may adapt, if he shall approve such plan as may have already been reported to the General Land Office.” in pursuance of which a portion of the lots were advertised for sale by proclamation of the President, bearing date the 21" of November 1834," and the last authorizing the sale of the lots “according to the plan of the Surveyor General of said Territory”
It appears to me that the original plan of the town as laid down on the plat of 1830, cannot without further legislation of Congress be made to give to the Rail Road grant as surveyed, but it being desirable and necessary to have all the facts before this Office, shewing the precise extent and nature of the interference before any final decision is made thereon, you will please in making the survey to proceed in such manner as to leave this question open for future adjustment, which need not prevent a complete survey being made by the Deputy without respecting the interfering portion of the Rail Road grant.”
I am Sir very respectfully your ob" Serv"
JN° M. MOORE Act" Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF WAR, October 21*1841</place-time>
<docbody>HON. DAVID LEVY, Delegate from Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 6" instant,” addressed to the President, in relation to Indian hostilities in Florida, was referred to this Department on the 11th instant; but in consequence of the personal interviews between us, I have postponed a written answer to your communication in favor of more pressing matters.
You are aware that the order for the withdrawal of a portion of the Dragoons from Florida has been so modified as to leave it discretionary with Colonel Worth to postpone its excution until he shall be satisfied that their services will be no longer necessary to the proper efficiency of his command.
Your letter concludes with four separate propositions, which, however, may be summed up thus: To call out a militia force for

protection, and place it under some officer independent of Colonel Worth, who is to be restricted to offensive operations with the regular troops.
It is not perceived that any advantage can be reasonably expected from a division of the commands in Florida, but rather, it is apprehended, that great inconvenience might result from the want of concert of action between the two commanders. The Government has entire confidence in the disposition and ability of Colonel Worth, not only to conduct the offensive operations against the Indians, but also, through his subordinate officers, to afford all requisite and proper protection to the frontier inhabitants; and for this purpose, he has been authorized, whenever he might deem it expedient to call into service any portion of the militia, not exceeding one regiment. Prompted by every humane and generous motive, and urged by frequent communications from this Department, no doubt is entertained that he will do whatever is proper to be done for the defence of the frontier.
J. C. S.”
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN M. MOORE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from GLO to ST:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE October 25” 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In the Commisioner's report to your predecessor of the
27th July last,” on the subject of the discrepancy of $2000 in the surveying accounts of Robert Butler the Surveyor General at Tallahassee Florida Territory, to which report I beg leave to refer, it was recommended that time might be allowed to Mr. Butler to enable him to complete the examinations instituted by him in his office, for the purpose of discovering the origin and nature of the error, and of explaining to the Department. I now have the honor to submit herewith Mr. Butler's report to this Office, bearing date the 14th instant on the result of his examinations, from which it will be perceived that after a careful and laborious examination and comparison of all the Field notes of survey in his office a trifling discrepancy of only $3 85/100 has been discovered, which the Surveyor General supposes to have arisen from errors in the additions or rejected fractions, and having given up all hope of discovering as he originally expected any vouchers to cover the amount of the discrepancy of
$2000, he now considers himself responsible for the amount heretofore credited in his accounts with the United States.

There having been no new facts communicated to this office either by Mr. Butler (except his letter herewith submitted) or from any other sourse since the commissioner's report above referred to calculated to change the opinions expressed in that report, that “the correspondence thus far did not afford sufficient facts to implicate injuriously either Col. Butler or his former chief clerks Mess" Williams and English, the error having been to all appearance a mere clerical error,” I would under all the circumstances respectfully submit whether it would not be proper to dismiss this matter from further consideration.”
The papers which accompanied the Commissioner's report of the
27th July are likewise herewith transmitted for reference.
I am, sir, very respectfully, Your ob" Serv"
JN° M MOORE Act" Commissioner To THE HON. WALTER FORWARD Secretary of the Treasury.***
[Endorsed] Mr Young directed on the 12th November that these papers should be returned to Com" no fault perceived. C. 95. Oct. 25.
Hartley EDMUND J. 
</docbody>
<dochead>FORSTALL TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>No 3. MOBILE 29 October 1841—</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EXCELLENCY R K CALL Governor of the Territory of Florida—
SIR—I have the honor of informing you that Mess" Hope & Co of Amsterdam, in consequence of your letter to them of 28 June last * have placed in my hands 225 Coupons of $30 each of the Bank of Pensacola guaranteed by the Territory of Florida—to wit.
118 Coupons due 1 Jan 1841. N° 1 (Q) 5–9 @ 13.
11 @ 22.24 @ 28–39.41 @ 89–43 (@ 72.78. 84 @ 89–95 (Q) 98–
107 Coupons due 1 July 1841. No 1 (@ 5.9 @ 13. 11 @ 18.
225 24 @ 28.39.41 @ 89–43 (@ 72.95 (@ 98– instructing me at the same time to demand payment of the same—
Messr" Hope & Co whilst appreciating the honorable feelings which pervade your whole letter do not agree with you as to the construction which you are pleased to put on the guarantee of the Territory: on this head they thus express themselves—.
“The refusal of payment by the Bank of Pensacola compelled us to address the Governor of the Territory of Florida for the set-

tlement of the interest on Bonds of the Bank guaranteed by the Territory and in reply Gov. Call assumes that the Territory stands to the Bondholders in the relation only of a remote and contingent endorser whose responsibility does not arise until after the failure of the Bank of Pensacola and its respective stockholders. It appears on the face of the Bonds (of which we inclose a copy) that the Bank is indebted to the Territory who by assigning them and making them payable to bearer assumes the responsibility of a commercial endorser directly liable to the holders—It was on the strength of this guarantee of the Territory that the Bonds were negotiated &
found Takers in this country”—
Now permit me respectfully to call your attention to the tenor of the Bond:
Upon its face are the following words:
“Guaranteed by the Territory of Florida The Capital stock of the Bank pledged to the Territory and the Stockholders individually and personally liable for the redemption thereof"
The endorsment is as follows:
“In pursuance of the laws of this Territory, the within Bond is hereby assigned and made payable to the bearer thereof, and the payment thereof and of the Interest thereon as within stipulated is hereby guaranteed by the Territory of Florida, and the faith of the Territory pledged for the redemption thereof”—
From which it would appear that the Bond only has been transferred to bearer thereby making it a commercial paper to all intents
& purposes, whilst the capital stock of the Bank pledged to the Territory has remained under its guardianship as a Security for its endorsment.
Should this be found to be the true state of the case and to me it appears incontrovertible would it be prudent to leave it to the Bondholders to sue the Bank and the stockholders for the trifling amount of unpaid interest which as stated in your letter of 28 June above alluded to “there is every reason to believe that the stockholders abroad are withdrawing the funds of the Bank beyond the jurisdiction of the Territory & appropriating them in a manner not warranted by charter”?
It must appear evident to you that an attachment for $6750 which is the amount claimed by me in behalf of Messr" Hope & Co for unpaid interests would be a very trifling security to the $225000
of Bonds they represent & which bear the endorsment of the Territory.
As the case, however is urgent, I am ready to join you in any measure likely to insure the Interest of both parties & I shall feel

under great obligation for an early answer at Pensacola where I
intend to be on Tuesday next *—
I have the honor to be resp. Your Ob"Sev"
S/EDM J FORSTALL
[Endorsed] N° 3 Recd. with E. J. Forstall's letter of Nov 29th 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD,Adj. Gen. Lets. Recd., W474:LS]</source>
<place-time>No 74 Head Qrs. Army of Florida TAMPA Novr 1* 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: I have the honor to report for the information of the Major General commanding the Army, that the Camp at Punta Rassa,”
standing on the site of old Fort Dulany was visited by a gale on the night of the 19* inst & all the public property consisting of storehouses, tents, arms in hand and in boxes, clothing, Quarter Masters &
Commissary's stores &c, was carried away by the action of the waves which swept over the entire place to the depth of several feet. The gale commenced about 11 o'clock at night & continued with great violence until 5 the next morning. Its fury was chiefly spent on the building occupied as a hospital, and which from the direction the storm took was most exposed to attack. It gives me pleasure, however, to state that, through the intredidity and unceasing exertions of Asst: Surgeon Simpson, whose conduct on the occasion entitles him to high praise, all the sick were saved with the exception of one soldier, who was unfortunately swept off & drowned. The storm was as unprecedented as violent. It could not have been foreseen &
when occuring, it is not probable that any efforts could have protected the property, although I apprehend it will be found in the investigation which I shall institute, that with the honorable exception above mentioned, suitable efforts were not made by the proper persons to mitigate the condition of the troops, & subsequently, to recover the means of sustaining them. Major Belknap of the 3" infy, now in command of the entire force on the Carlooshatchee,” & who was at Fort Denand * on special service with two of the companies from Punta Rassa, fortunately returned a few hours after the storm abated, & gave all necessary orders. It was equally fortunate that transports which had been sent hence a few daye previous, with ample supplies

of provisions, in anticipation of coming operations south, arrived at Punta Rassa one day after the troops had become destitute. The loss of property is not great, being limited to a portion of the arms &
equipments of two companies, besides ammunition; the entire clothing of the men except what they had on; some six thousand rations of provisions; several mules & wagons; twelve canoes & boats; & other trifling articles of Quarter Masters supplies. The buildings which were constructed by the labor of the troops, were, with the exception of the hospital, of light material, chiefly palmetto, & their loss, so far as respects military operations, is deemed of no consequence.
The public Steamer “Isis” lying in the harbour, was driven ashore by the violence of the storm, on the ground occupied by the camp. She will be got off, it is believed, without damage, but with much labour.
The other Steam boat “Hyperion” also in the public service, was at the time, up the Carlooshatchee & sustained but partial injury. The garrison at Punta Rassa will be removed and a post established four miles above on an eligible position, which, it is believed, would have been originally occupied had it been known, as now, that it was accessible for transport.
I have the pleasure to add that while at Fort Denand, Major Belknap succeeded in getting in thirty three of the southern indians, among them several important persons, who have reached this place.
He has returned to Fort Denand with a command, engaged in establishing a post near the old site, & reports the prospect of having in his possession in a few days upwards of one hundred more of these indians.
By my report N° 62" you were advised that a combined military
& naval operation had been directed to the Everglades, under Capt.
Burk of the Army and Lt. Rogers of the Navy. This force in boats with Capt. M"Laughlin of the Navy, who subsequently joined, penetrated the Everglades, proceeded through a portion of the Big Cypress and debouched on the Gulf 18 miles below Punta Rassa, coming out by a stream hitherto unknown, north of Cape Romain. This command has been directed to proceed to Jupiter inlet on the Atlantic side via the Carlooschatchee, the Okeechobee & the Locha Hatchee, on which latter stream, recent intelligence places Jones & his band of seceders from the Prophet, with whom he has quarrelled. I have the honor to enclose the report of Major Belknap, copy of the report of Capt. M"Laughlin to the Secretary of the Navy, & a memorandum indicating contemplated operations south,” in fixing the time for which, I have been governed by the recent activity of Major Childs

command, needing some repose; the necessity of preparation on both sides, added to which is a desire before moving south, to entirely free the settlements from molestation, which I am happy to say there is now a fair & speedy prospect of accomplishing.
In my report N° 71,” you were informed that the important band of Neathlock E. Mathla was secure. That chief with Tiger tail &
two other brothers & thirty of his people, presented themselves and surrendered their arms on the 19" inst, the remaining numbers of that band are now on their route in & close by. The most important of these persons have already been dispatched, in conjunction with several of the friendly indians from the Arkansas, to rally the Creeks;
meantime the troops in the direction of the settlements are kept in constant activity.
I have ordered a reissue of certain articles of clothing, free of charge, to those soldiers who actually lost their clothing in consequence of the late disaster at Punta Rassa, which I hope will be approved by the Commanding General.”
Very Respectfully Yr. ob’t Serv't W J WORTH Colonel Commanding THE ADJUTANT GENERAL OF THE ARMY Head Quarters Washington City
[Endorsed] 474 Ho Qrs: Tampa 1. Novr. '41 Col. W.J. Worth Comm Reports the distruction of Camp at Punta Rossa by a gale on the night of the 19* with all the public property & refers to the great exertions of A. Surg. Simpson. The garrison will be removed to a position four miles above. Maj: Belknap ret" with 33 S" Indians &
reports the prospect of having upwards 100 more—Refers to the expedition to the Everglades of the Army & Navy. Encloses Major Belknaps & Lt. McLaughlin reports with memo: of the general movement upon the Big Cypress. Respectfully laid before the Sec. of War R. Jones Rec" 10 1841 Rec" 10. Now: 1841—5 encl.”
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE 1" November 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to enclose for your information a copy of the instructions given to J.M. Irwin, to govern him in the execution of his Contract (also enclosed) made in pursuance of your letter of

instructions of the 15* September last,” which I hope will be found entirely satisfactorily—I have to request that you will place me in possession of funds in due time, to meet this contract, also that of Mr Mings refered to in my letter of the 20" Ult° * and the Current expences of the office for the present year (say Seven hundred Dollars)
beyond the amount due me on settlement of my account for the 3"
Quarter last past—
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, Your M" Ob. S'
ROBERT BUTLER Surv" General E. M. HUNTINGTON Esq Comm General L Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 1 Nov 1841 R. Butler S.G. Encloses a copy of contract with J.M. Irwin, (made according to Comm”
Instructions of Sep 15,) also of the instructions given him, Hopes to be put in funds to meet the expense of this & other contracts, & the current expenses of the office. Ackg" Nov 10th 1841.” Made requisition for $1500 of Gen. App.–
Within contract estimate $300
Incidental Exp" 700
Ming &c 500
$1500 Mr Steiger Rec" 10"
Novem” 1841
[Enclosure]
Robert Butler to John M. Irwin
(Copy)
Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE 29* Octr 1841
SIR, Having signed your contract *(qualified and had your compass and chain adjusted) you will proceed to execute the same without delay in the following manner: Having herewith furnished you an extract from the decree of the Supreme Court as to the manner of dividing the lands of the United States from “Forbes’ Purchase”
which you will implicitly obey—A Copy of the plan of reservation for the Rail Road Company of Tallahassee, and a plan of the Town of St Marks, with the plat of F Town” 4 Range 1. S & E. to enable you to form connexions with the “Public Lands”—
1st—You will run out the three lines from the point of begining at the ditch, first to the Apex, at right angles from the wall of the nothern

face of the bastian, and opposite the shoulder of the Same, posting at either end, but with a large post at the apex as hereafter described, and to each river posting each termination, and uniting the same with the apex
2nd—Meander each river from the point of junction to connect with the lines above specified, and cut off the Fort on the south of first Street, from the Town, giving the area thereof
3rd. Form connexions with Fractional Township 4 Range 1 S & E.
Run out the donation to the Tallahassee Rail Road Company agreeably to the plan. For all these lines and the north line of 5" Street
& Sections lines connecting, you will be allowed $4 per mile agreeable to law.
4” Survey the Town agreeably to the plan furnished and for the particular manner, kind and size of the posts, and posting the canals at their intersections with the Streets, and on each river, added to the expensive place where the work is to be executed; I have agreed to allow you, the Sum of Two Hundred and Twenty five Dolls as a full compensation therefor—The following particulars are given in addition to the above, as explanatory for your information and guidance—The line run from the ditch to acertain the apex of those two lines connecting with the river, only to be laid down as a dotted line upon the town plat; but at the apex a large live oak post must be set, giving on either face, the course and distance to the river, and on the back “Forbes Purchase” cut on a board and Securely nailed thereto, and posted at each river—The lots must be posted with live oak posts 4 inches square & 5 feet long shewing 3 feet above ground, with the number of the lots cut thereon upon each face—The canals 30 feet wide forming the center of the streets (as per plan)
must in like manner have these posts & at their intersections have boards with “Canal” cut thereon; The course and names of the Streets, and numbers of the lots, with their dimensions, and the Canals, must be laid down on the plat as per plan furnished, and the survey of the donation to the Rail Road Company, must be made agreeable to the plat also furnished, and the interference with the “Town Plan” shewn only in dotted lines; but posted and marked
“R.R. C” with similar posts to those used for town lots—The course and distance pointed out for the line to be run from the outer part of the ditch to the apex, and the lines to form connexions with the two rivers, as given by the extract from the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, furnished herewith, is to govern you in dividing the claim of “Forbes Purchase” from the lands reserved for the use of the United States, and to be laid down with said town plat, giving the area of the land between the town and said dividing lines, In making your return of a plat embracing all these Surveys, 

you will also return lucid field notes of the same for the manner and form of which, you will be instructed in this office by my clerk, and you will deleniate on said plat, a connexion with the nearest corner of F"Townp 4 Range 1 S & E. with a point where the dividing line of “Forbes Purchase” strikes the same; to enable this office to give the fractional Section numbers to the land of the United States south of said line and for which purpose an extension of the section lines of this township must be made within the limits assigned you and laid down in dotted lines Only—You will please return to this office, the several plans furnished you, when you shall make your return to this Office Very Respectfully Yr Mo Obdt Sert ROBERT BUTLER Surf General MR. JOHN MI. IRWIN
[Endorsed] Copy of Instructions to J. M. Irwin for executing Surveys as p” Contract enclosed. for the Comm G.L. Office.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF WILLIAM P. DUVAL AS LAW AGENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Comms., E 2]</source>
<place-time>[November 4, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability and Learning of WILLIAM P. DUVAL of Florida, in pursuance of an Act of Congress passed on the 23" day of May
1828,” I do appoint him Law Agent in Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto of right appertaining, unto him, the said WILLIAM P. DUVAL, during the pleasure of the President of the United States.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to L. S. be made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the fourth day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the sixty sixth."
JOHN TYLER.
By the President:
FLETCHER WEBSTER Acting Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO JOHN M. MOORE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE Nov’ 6” 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt this morning of your letter of 20" Ulto," and the acts of Congress pass'd at at the late extra session In reply to your letter I would respectfully state that a present enlargement of the plan of S’ Marks would be impolitic, in as much as the contract and instructions have issued (and copies forwarded on the 1st inst) and the extent thereof being sufficient in all probability, to meet present demands—Should its enlargement be demanded when the lots are sold, it can be easily effected at a small cost from the provisions embraced in my instructions to the Surveyor.—Your views correspond with my own on the subject of the Donation to the T. R. R. C. as express'd in my letter to the late Comm', yet have I his instructions and that of the opinion of the Attorney General in opposition—The course you recommend shall be persued when the Survey is returned, and was intended so to be, as you may infer from my instructions to the Deputy to lay it down in dotted lines as an interferance—I shall call the attention of the Commissioner to the whole subject when the survey shall be reported.
The prospect of a termination of this vexacious war, again seems to brighten upon us, and I would suggest that I be advised of the General wishes of the Department with regard to the future surveys and their period of commencement at the earliest moment of Safety, which can more fully be relied on by information received thro the Department of War. I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Mo Obdt Sert ROBERT BUTLER Surv" Gen"
JAMES M MOORE Esq. Acting Commissioner
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor 6 Nov 1841 R Butler S.G. Ack" receipt of letter of 20" Oct & the Acts of Congress of last session. In reply, states that it is impolitic to enlarge the plan of St Marks at present.
If it should be necessary hereafter, it can be done at small cost.
States that the course recommended in relation to the T. Rail Road Co. shall be pursued. Wishes to be advised of the general views of the Dep" in regard to the future surveys. Answered Nov 17
1841*W.T.S. M. Steiger Ra 15" Nov. 1841

</docbody>
<dochead>EDMUND J. FORSTALL TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>No 4 PENSACOLA 7 November 1841</place-time>
<docbody>To HIS EXCELLENCY RKCALL Governor of the Territory of Florida—
SIR I had the honor of addressing you on the 29" Ult” from Mobile"—I reached this place last evening & look for an answer from you by tomorrow's or Wednesday's mail, in the meantime allow me a few quotations & remarks which the perusal of the several laws constituting the Territory of Florida, & the Bank of Pensacola now for the first time before me naturally suggest—
Gordon's Digest Page 195 Sect: 679–“The Governor shall publish throughout the said Territory all the laws which shall be made &
shall on or before the 1 December, in each year, report the same to the President of the United States, to be laid before Congress which if disapproved by Congress shall thenceforth be of no force”.
“Every bill which shall have passed the Legislative council shall before it becomes a law be presented to the Governor—if he approve it he shall sign it—and if not he shall return it with his objection in writing to the Legislative council”
By the law entitled “An act to increase the Capital of the Bank of Pensacola & to amend the laws incorporating said Bank and other purposes” approved 14 Feb 1835–
Sect: 1—provides for the increase of the capital to $500.000.
Sect: 4 Authorises the issue of $500.000, of Bonds to be endorsed by the Territory as follows—: “In pursuance of the Laws of the Territory the within Bond is hereby assigned and made payable to the bearer thereof and the payment thereof and of the interest thereon as within stipulated is hereby guaranteed by the Territory of Florida and the faith of the Territory is pledged for the resumption thereof.”
Sect: 6. provides for a further issue of Bonds under the same guarantee.
Sect: 7. In consideration of the guarantee of the Territory, requires the hypothecation of the Capital Stock of said Bank and of its property real & personal & of the Stock it may then or thereafter hold in the Alabama, Florida & Georgia Rail Road Comp”
in favor of said Territory—
Sect. 8. Requires that the profits of the Bank & all profits of the stock owned by said Bank in said Alabama, Florida & Georgia Rail Road Comp' shall be exclusively appropriated to the payment of the interest & principal of said Bonds as aforesaid &

furthermore “that the stockholders of said Bank of said Rail Road shall be individually and personally liable for the redemption of said Bonds—
By An act supplemental to several acts incorporating the Bank of Pensacola—approved 10 Feb 1838
the 2* Sect: provides for the repeal of the 8" Sect: of the act entitled “An Act to increase the Capital of the Bank of Penascola and to amend the laws incorporating said Bank and for other purposes thereby relieving the stockholders from personal Responsibility”
From all which it is self evident.
1° That as by the law organising Florida into a Territorial Government, all laws of the Territory have to be submitted annually to the President of the U. S. & Congress for their approbation *—
that the acts of the Territory of Florida entitled “An act to increase the Capital of the Bank of Pensacola and to amend the laws incorporating said Bank and for other purposes” approved 14 Feb 1835. & an act supplemental to several acts incorporating the Bank of Pensacola “approved 10 Feb 1838–
not having been disapproved by the President of the U. S. find themselves de facto approved by the Federal Government.
2° That the Executive of the Territory of Florida having a veto power and not having exercised it fully approved the above named acts—
3° That by the act of 14 Feb 1835. The consideration of the guarantee of the Bonds by the Territory was a direct hypothecation to said Territory of all the property of the Bank (See Sect: 7) &
the responsibility of the stockholders (See Sect 8)
4° That the endorsment of said Bonds to order—not conveying the transfer of the guarantee thus required by the Territory the guarantee in the 8* Sect: above cited was a contract between the Territory & the Stockholders in no way affecting third parties—

the 8" Sect: of the act to increase the Capital of the Bank of Pensacola and to amend the laws incorporating said Bank &
for other purposes being repealed the Stockholders of said Bank found themselves relieved by law of all personal responsibility—
And no other construction can be put upon said supplemental act, for on close examination it will be found that it could have had no other object in view than the release of the Stockholders, the other provisions therein contained being only a repetition of the conditions already provided for in the act of 14 Feb'
1835–(See Sect 8) as to the Sect: requiring the payment to the Territory of 2 p 9% on the nett profits of the Bank it was very well known in 1838 that it was a nullity—
I have been informed that by an act passed in 1840 * the above act has been repealed as being unconstitutional in my humble opinion I cannot see the unconstitutionality of that act—Surely the hypothecation & personal responsibility of the Stockholders having remained altogether in the sole possession of the Territory, in consideration of its guarantee of the Bonds issued by the Bank—& these Bonds being transferred by the Territory to Bearer only with its own guarantee—
the right of the Territory to abandon such personal security cannot be disputed.
The Bondholders surely cannot complain for they well knew that they only had the faith of the Territory to look to & should it fail—
the Federal Government—there was no contract between them &
the Stockholders consequently there can be no breach of contract so far as they are interested—As to the law of 1840 it appears to me an ex post facto law to all intents & purposes.
I beg leave to repeat that Mess" Hope & C. never understood the guarantee of the Bonds otherwise than above expressed by the law creating the same to wit. the faith of the Territory under the guardianship of the Federal Government and that they always believed that the approbation of both the Executive appointed by the Federal Government & of the Federal Government itself made these Bond's equal to any National fund—
I am respy Your Obt Servt S/ EDM J FORSTALL
[Endorsed] N° 4 Recd. with E. J. Forstall's letter of Nov 29" 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>CERTIFICATE BY GEORGE G. PATTISON</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>No 5 [November 8, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>TERRITORY OF FLORIDA Escambia County City of Pensacola—I.
Geo: G. Pattison—Notary Public, duly commissioned and qualified

in and for the City of Pensacola and County of Escambia hereby certify that on this day to wit: Monday eighth November (1841)
Eighteen hundred and forty one, I presented myself in person at the Office of the Bank of Pensacola, and then and there demanded payment of M. W. B. Taylor, acting President and manager of said Bank of Pensacola, and in behalf of Mess" Hope & Co of Amsterdam represented by Edmund John Forstall of New Orleans, of Two hundred and twenty five Coupons of interest, due on the Bonds of the said Bank of Pensacola guaranteed and endorsed to Bearer by the Territory of Florida aforesaid, which Coupons for thirty dollars each are as follows:
Bonds A 55 Coupons due 1 Jan 1841
58 Coupons due 1 Jan’ 1841
5 Coupons due 1 Jan 1841.
55 Coupons due 1 July 1841
47 Coupons due 1 July 1841
5 Coupons due 1 July 1841
225
Say in all Two hundred and twenty five coupons of thirty dollars making together the sum of Six Thousand Seven hundred and fifty dollars and was answered by the Aforesaid W. B. Taylor, acting President and manageras aforesaid, that the Bank had neither the means nor ability to make payment thus demanded of said sum of Six Thousand Seven hundred and fifty dollars—Whereupon I the undersigned Notary entered this and do now enter my Solemn protest against said Bank of Pensacola and Territory of Florida, in behalf of whomsoever it may concern for all damages of whatsoever nature may accrue in consequence of the failure of the payment of the Coupons aforesaid Done in this City of Pensacola on the day & year aforesaid Signed: GEO: G. PATTISON-Notary Public [Endorsed] No 5 Recd. with E. J. Forstall's letter of Nov 29" 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR CALL TO EDMUND J. FORSTALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>Copy— TALLAHASSEE 12 November 1841–</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 29" Ult° * informing me that Mess" Hope & Co of Amsterdam have placed in your hands certain Coupons of the Bank of Pensacola, guaranteed by the Territory of Florida, and that they have instructed you “at the same time to demand payment of the same—

After the most mature reflection I have found no cause to change the opinion expressed in my letter of the 25 June last " addressed to Mess" Hope & Co a copy of which is herewith inclosed, and to which I beg leave to refer you, as an expression of my present sentimenton the subject.
I am truly desirous Sir, that the interest due on the Bonds held by this highly respectable house (which has often evinced a great degree of liberality towards American Securities) should be paid with the least possible delay; and I am animated by the most ardent desire, to sustain the honour of this Territory and redeem its pleges, to the last fraction of her responsibility—But I consider it a common act of justice to the people of Florida, to require on the part of the Bondholders, due, and strict diligence to recover both the interest and principal of the Bonds from the Bank of Pensacola, the Stockholders of that Bank, and the Stockholders of the Alabama Florida and Georgia Rail Road Company—They are first liable under the Charter of incorporation, and should stand between the Territory and the Bondholders—They were so regarded by the Authorities of the Territory when the Bonds were endorsed, and must have been thus considered by the purchasers of the Bonds, as the interest appears to have been paid for a series of years without application to the Territory or without our authorities ever knowing by whom it was paid, or by whom received—The Holders of these obligations have unquestionable right to maintain an action at law against the parties above mentioned, and recover from them, the sum now demanded, while the Territory would fail in such an action were she to seak indemnity from the Stockholders, after paying the amount claimed. The Bonds of the Bank were endorsed and delivered by the Territory to that institution, without consideration—The principal Stock Holders became the first purchasers of the Bonds from the Bank—They are the next endorsers of the Bonds They received the money for them, and they through the directors of the Bank had almost the exclusive control and management of the funds and property, both of the Bank and Rail Road while the Territory has neither exercised authority over them, nor derived the least benefit whatever from them—
The pledge of the Capital Stock of the Bank to the Territory you will percieve cannot have been regarded by any one at any time, as more than a nominal Security. The Capital of the Bank must

from the nature of the institution have remained in the custody, or under the control of the Officers of the Bank, and they being subject to the will of the Stockholders residing abroad, you will readily discover with what ease the capital might be withdrawn from the Bank, and transported beyond the jurisdiction of this Territory, without the knowledge or consent of its authorities It was therefore not on this empty pledge that the Territory relied as a Security, but on the immediate responsibility of the Stockholders in their private and individual capacity, to the Bondholders, without the agency or interposition of the Territory However much the Bonds on their face may be assimilated to a “commercial paper” and present the appearance (in the language of Messr" Hope & Co) “that the Bank is indebted to the Territory, who by assigning the bonds, and making them payable to bearer, assumes the responsibility to the holder” The presumption arising from this appearance, must be removed by a knowledge of the facts:
And it can scarcely be credited that the purchasers of the Bonds were so unguarded & incautious as not to have examined the Charter of the Institution to ascertain the true character of the transaction, as well as the relative responsibility of the parties concerned. Nor do I imagine that they received those Bonds merely by delivery without the special endorsement of the vendors—Permit me therefore Sir, to renew to you the enquiry I made of Messr." Hope & Co, and which they have omitted (unintentionally no doubt) to answer—
whose names appear on the Bonds subsequent to the endorsment of the Government of this Territory? If there be no impropriety in giving this intelligence, I should be obliged by receiving it—
I have thus expressed to you Sir, my undisguised opinion, as one of the coordinate branches of this Government, on the subject of the claim of Messr" Hope & Co.—The whole matter will however at the meeting of the Legislative Council on the first monday in Jan' next, be presented to that body, for such action as it may think proper to bestow—"
I Have the Honour to be Very Respectfully Your Ob" Serv"
S/ R K CALL-
Mr E J FORSTALL.
[Endorsed] Copy of Gov” Call's letter dated Talahassee 12 Nov
1841 Recd. With E. J. Forstall’s letter of Nov 29" 1841.

</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES A. WICKLIFFE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:ALS)</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Novr. 13" 1841</place-time>
<docbody>HONBE. CHARLES A WICKLIFF
DR. SIR enclosed is a letter to the President which I request you will hand to him"—It is as you will see from Geo: K. Walker Esq former secretary of this Territory and the son of Col" David Walker of Kentucky deceased. The marshal of the Appalachicola district has ever been my warm personal friend, but the public interests are suffering from his attention to the duties of his office and the want of punctualty in paying over the money he collects as marshal, The general complaint of Mr Gautier is so common that few are willing to permit him to receive the money on their executions The statements of Mr Walkers letter are true, and he has much right to complain of the Marshal, as he has paid about $7000 as security. and cannot get the marshal to make the money because his father is liable, and my friend Mr Walker will certainly be greatly injured if not ruined if he can not in a short time make the money on his executions—There is no gentleman in Florida of higer moral worth and character than Mr Walker, and as he some time since wrote to the President on this subject, he has requested me to get the case fairly before the President, to prevent his ruin—I know of but one gentleman in the Apalachicola district who is a Tyler man, that is every way competent to fill the office of marshal and his appointment would give in the district more satisfaction than that of any other person. The gentleman I allude to is Hezikia Hawley Esq. of the City of Appalachicola. One of the oldest citizens of this territory, a man of excellent habits of business and known punctuallity—I would recommend no person for office to the President, but such as would do credit to him and the country—I must beg you will interest yourself in this matter. for I have now not less than
$100,000 in suit to be collected in the Apalachicola district and every member of the bar is interested in having a competent and punctual Marshal—There has been buried here the last season up to this time 400–out of a population of about 1600, it is now more healthy but hot, a few cases of yellow fever are occuring. The frost here has been too slight to kill vegetation, and we have summer heat, now, and for several days past. My daughter Florida is yet sick &
my daughter Mary Robinson also—my son John is now well. I

have two servants sick, and indeed the whole country is truly a land of mourning—I do not know what will become of us all, Your affectionate friend Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] (private) Hon" C. A. Wickliff Washington
[Endorsed] Marshal—Apalachicola District, Florida
1. Gautier (incumbent) objected to 2. Hawley H. recommended by W. P. DuVal 1841."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF WAR WASHINGTON, November 16” 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXCELLENCY R. K. CALL, Governor of Florida.
Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR. Since my letter to your Excellency of the 10" inst,” further and more favorable reports have been received from Colonel Worth, and I cannot doubt that the war in Florida will soon terminate. I
enclose for your Excellency's information copies of several letters”
transmitted by the Colonel, Commanding, which go far to show the inexpediency of calling out volunteers or militia at this time.”
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN M. MOORE TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>Nov. 17, 1841</place-time>
<docbody>R. BUTLER Esq S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 6" inst,” acknowledging the receipt of my letter to you of the
20" Ult° " & concurring in the views of this Office in regard to the mode of Surveying and laying down the donation of the T. R. Road Co: in connection with the town of S' Marks, but suggesting that

the enlargement of the plan of the town on the North & East, may be postponed for the present.
In reply I have to State that your suggestion to postpone the enlargement of the town, is approved under the circumstances, until your promised Report after the Survey now in progress is completed, shall be received & considered.
In reference to future Surveys in your District after the termination of the Indian Hostilities, this Office will be better prepared, to give its views, when the estimates for the service of 1842 shall have been made up. At present, it appears to me, that the first operations towards the extension of the Surveys after the removal of the Indians should be to extend carefully one of the range lines, say the line between Ranges 23 & 24 East, Southwardly throughout the peninsula, and run Standard parallels therefrom to the Gulf &c Sea Shores as it becomes desirable to extend the Surveys of lands for market, to accomodate occupants & settlers at particular points of the coast at some future period, which with the Surveys of private claims, and corrections of the Surveys on the S" Johns River, heretofore the subject of a correspondence, would give sufficient employment to your Office for the first year. In the mean time, this Office will be pleased to learn your views on the subject, which will be duly considered.”
I am Very Respy Your Ob'S'
JN° M. MOORE Acting Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>EDMUND J. FORSTALL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>Copy. N° 1– [November 18, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>To THE HONB" DANIEL WEBSTER Secretary of State—
SIR, I deem it my duty to the Holders of the Bonds of the Pensacola Bank, whom I represent through Mess" Hope & Co of Amsterdam, to lay before you the following statement of facts—You are no doubt aware that these Bonds have been issued under the authority of the Legislative Council of Florida & of the Governor of that Territory, & that they bear its guarantee by endorsment to Bearer—
The Bank of Pensacola having failed to pay the current Interest on these Bonds due 1 Jany 1841—Mess" Hope & Co of Amsterdam for themselves & other Holders on the 11th May 1841 notified the fact to his Excellency Gov" R K Call & demanded payment of the interest due * (See copy of said notification N° 1)—

Under date of 28* June 1841.” Gov. R. K. Call acknowledges the above notification—recognises the liability of the Territory but assumes “That the Territory stands to the Bond Holders in the relation of a remote and contingent endorser whose responsibility does not arise until after the failure of the Bank of Pensacola and its respective Stockholders” & adds “I have every confidence in the honor of this Territory & believe she will in good faith redeem her responsibility when it shall have arisen, but in the character of a remote endorser, she will exact due diligence on the part of the Bond Holders prosecuting their claims against the Bank and the Individual Stockholders who are first bound, and who also have had the advantage of the money raised by the sale of the Bonds—
I would therefore recommend to you, & other Bond Holders to proceed at once and without delay by attachment against the assetts of the Bank of Pensacola, as well by action against the Individual Stockholders—I am induced to recommend the process of attachment against the Bank, because I have every reason to believe that the Stockholders abroad are withdrawing the funds of the Bank, beyond the jurisdiction of this Territory and appropriating them in a manner not warranted by the Charter” (See copy of Gov” Calls letter hereto annexed & N° 2)—
This assumption, Mess" Hope & Co could not admit & on the 29"
Ult° " I so notified his Excellency (as p copy of said letter annexed under N° 3) on the 7" Ins"I again addressed Gov” Call" (as pannexed copy N° 4) explaining the grounds taken by Mess" Hope & Co for themselves & other Bond Holders—on the 8" I presented myself at the Bank of Pensacola with a notary public & there demanded payment of the Interest on the Bonds due 1 Jan 1841 & 1 July 1841
amounting to $6750 *—payment having been refused, the inclosed Protest N° 5. was entered & immediately notified to the Bank of Pensacola, the Governor of the Territory of Florida, & is now laid before you, to await the action of the Federal Government thereupon-
A reference to the annexed papers & letters above referred to will show you:
1° That the Bank of Pensacola was chartered on the 14" Feb 1835
under the authority of the Governor of the Territory of Florida &
of its Legislative council—all officers and agents of the Federal Gov"
2° That by virtue of the above charter Bonds were issued on the
29* April 1835 by the Bank of Pensacola, & guaranteed & trans-

ferred to Bearer on the 2" December 1835— by his Excellency John H Eaton Governor of the Territory of Florida to the amount of $500.000–
30 That the above charter & emission of $500,000—not having been disapproved by the President & Congress of the United States at the usual Session of said Congress after the creation of said charter of the Bank of Pensacola & emission of Bonds as above designated—found themselves de facto approved by the Federal Government (see Gordon's Digest page 195—Sect 679 &c)
4° That by virtue of said charter of the Bank of Pensacola—the Bond only was transferred, the guarantee remaining in the sole possession & under the sole control of the Territory of Florida as the consideration for its indorsment.
5° That this construction of the Charter of said Bank of Pensacola has been sanctioned by the Governor & Legislative Council of Florida & the President & Congress of the United States by the passage of a law approved 10 Feb 1838" whereby the stockholders of the Bank of Pensacola were relieved from all personal responsibility—which law does not appear to have been disapproved by the Federal Government—
Permit me now to call your attention to the Bank reports to the Legislative Council of Florida in the spring of 1840—which document I do not send you as I suppose that it is to be found in the Archives of your Department— A reference to pages 36 & 37 will show you that so far back as November 1839 Rail Roads & Machinery to a very large amount hypothecated to the Territory of Florida for its endorsment were suffered by the Executive to be shipped to New York & to be sold to the Montgomery Rail Road Comp” which is a proof that at that epoch at least the Executive of Florida entertained a different opinion to that expressed in Gov” Call's letter of 28 June 1841 before quoted, otherwise how to account for the recommendation of Gov'
Call to the Bond Holders more than 3 years after the Stockholders have been relieved by law of all personal responsibility—& upwards of one year after the only guarantee remaining to wit: the Rail Roads Machinery &c have been suffered to be carried away? By the same Document you will see that the principal Stockholders of the Bank of Pensacola are Mess" Walter Gregory W* H Chase, Thomas Biddle-
Samuel Landon, Morris Robinson—W S Wilder—Cha" A Davis-

Elihu Chancey—each holding 1625 shares—making together 13.000
shares—"
I am Sir, Respy Your Obt Serv"
- S/ EDM J FORSTALL
NEW ORLEANS 18 November 1841–
[Endorsed] Recd. with E. J. Forstall's letter of Nov. 29th 1841.
</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE MARVIN TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 26 Cong., 2 sess.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>KEY WEST. Nov. 20. 1841</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR, In compliance with the requests of the two Grand Juries for Monroe and Dade counties, empannelled at the last May and November terms, I transmit you their presentments, upon the subject of a Marine Hospital, Court House, and Jail for this District.
Key West is peculiarly exposed to the aggressions of imported villians. It is a kind of “Half Way House” for travellers upon the high seas. Here they stop, refresh themselves, and not infrequently commit crimes against the laws. The jail is totally insufficient to secure offenders. The county is too poor to build a jail, and the Treasury of the Territory is bankrupt—The laws of the United States cannot be enforced here without a jail. Revolts, mutinies, stealing from wrecks, assaults and batteries, and murders upon the high seas, are of not infrequent occurrence on this coast. These are crimes against the laws of the United States. Will not the congress appropriate money for building a jail at a point like this?
The old court house is very inconvenient and unsuitable for holding courts in. A new one is much needed.
I estimate the cost of building a good jail here at about $8000.
and a court house about the same.
You are familiar with our wants here and I need not add more than that I am Your Obt Servant Wm. MARVIN
TO THE HON DAVID LEVY, Washington City

[Enclosure]
Presentment of the Grand Jury for Monroe County *
SUPERIOR COURT May Term 1841
The Grand Jurors for Monroe County before seperating disere to present to the consideration of the Congress of the United States the exposed condition of our community to the depradations of wicked and lawless persons in consequence of the insecurity and insufficiency of the jail of our county. A small, inconvenient, badly arranged, and loose constructed jail, was built in this county in 1833
by the Territory, but its isolated situation, the flimsiness of its materials and construction render it entirely insecure, and its weakness is laughed at and despised by the wicked, and deplored by the good.
Since the last sitting of the court it has been several times broken open, and its lawless inmates turned loose unpunished to prey upon society. Our Insular situation renders our community peculiarly liable to have thrown upon it many persons guilty of the crimes of murder, piracy, larceny, embezzlement, revolt, mutiny, assaults and batteries and many other offences committed upon the high seas, and which are only triable and punishable by the laws of the United States. A large majority of the persons committed to jail are the prisoners of the United States and yet the Congress has hitherto never appropriated one cent to the building or repairing a jail in this entire Judicial District. There are now in jail six persons confined by authority of the United States and we are informed a guard has been employed by the direction of the Honble. the Judge for the some time past to watch and protect the jail. The expenses of this guard must be paid by somebody, and we think that economy, sound policy, justice to this community, the administration of the laws, and the honor of the nation require that means should be supplied here to enable the courts to administer the criminal laws, to vindicate there supremicy and to confine and punish the guilty.
Crimes against the laws of the United States owing to the frequent ship wrecks upon our coast, our insular situation and other causes will forever be of frequent occurrence; and we think that Congress need only to be informed of the exposed condition of our community to induce it to interfere and prevent its hereafter being made the sanctuary of the vile and to administer the proper remedy.
We request your Honor to cause to be transmitted to our Delegate in Congress a copy of this presentment, in the belief, that his

services will be enlisted to obtain an accomplishment of our wishes"
Unanimously adopted In behalf of the Grand jury W. H. WALL Foreman Clerk's office Sup. Court S. D. Fla.—KEY WEST Nov. 18. 1841
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of presentment made by the grand jury for Monroe County at the last May term of said court, on file in this office—
H. W. SPENCER Deputy Clerk
[Endorsed] Florida—Grand Jury Key West appropriation for Court H” & Jail. Presentment of Grand Jury at Key West recommending and soliciting an appropriation for the erection of a Court House and Jail–Dec. 16. 1841 Ref" to the Com" on the Judiciary"
Mar. 8, 1842 Ref" to Com" on the Territories* M. Brown from Judiciary asks a reference to Committee on Teritories—M. Brown
29 dis Levy. & Territories COMMISSION OF ROBERT MYERS AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (APALACHICOLA DISTRICT)
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals Temp. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[November 25, 1841]</place-time>
JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of ROBERT MYERS I do appoint him

Marshal of The United States for the Apalachicola District in the Territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; and to have and to hold the said Office, with all the power, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said ROBERT
MYERS during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the United States, and no longer."
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the 25" day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty one and of the Independence of the United States of America, the sixty sixth "
JOHN TYLER, By the President:
DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>EDMUND J. FORSTALL TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD Misc. Letters:C]</source>
<place-time>[November 29, 1841]</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN TYLER President of the United States.
SIR, I have the honor of transmitting to you copy of a letter which under date of 18" Ins" I have addressed to the H* the Secretary of State" on the Subject of a claim against the United States for interests due on Bonds guaranteed by the Government of the Territory of Florida—you will perceive by this letter & the documents therein referred to, which are to be laid before Congress immediately on its meeting that the claim of the Bond Holders I represent are founded upon the following facts:
That the Governor—the Judges—the Judicial Executive officers and even the military officers of the Territory of Florida are appointed by the Federal Government—That the Members of the Legislative Council are paid by the National Government—that Congress regulates the length of the Sessions of the Council—
That Congress besides the power reserved to itself of annulling the Acts of the Legislative council has given to the Governor in whose

appointment the people of Florida has no voice, the power of vetoing all Bills unless passed by the 2/3" of the members of each house
(Story vol. III pages 1828–1902 & 2073–)
That in fine the Government of Florida as created & put in motion by Congress is nothing else than an agency of the Federal Government subject to all the obligations of the Principal or the acts of his agent I beg also to enclose the copy of an answer of Gov” Call under date of 12 instant * to a letter which I addressed him on 29" Ult”
copy of which you will find among the documents forwarded to the H* the Secretary of State—
Governor Call in this answer persists in the position taken by him in his notification to the Bond Holders of 28* June last" wherein he assumes “That the Territory stands to the Bond Holders in the relation only of a remote and contingent endorser whose responsibility does not arise until after the failure of the Bank of Pensacola and its respective stockholders, and that in her character of a remote endorser she will exact due diligence on the part of the Bond Holders prosecuting their claims against the Bank and the Individual stockholders who are first bound &c” (See notification to Messr". Hope
& C° bearing date Tallahassee 28 June 1841). & yet it is in proof–
1° That the Charter of the Bank of Pensacola approved 14* February 1835.” received the sanction of Congress by not having been disapproved as provided by law at its ensuing Session—and this is easily accounted for: The very fact of the Bank of Pensacola being created for the purpose of connecting the whole Territory by rail Roads was causing an immense advance in the value of her lands—the 7/8" of these lands belonging to the Federal Government it was deriving by far the greatest and most immediate benefit by the contemplated introduction of foreign Capital & building of Rail Roads—hence no doubt the tacit approbation by Congress of the above charter—
2" That the $500.000 of Bonds issued by the Bank of Pensacola by virtue of its charter, received the endorsment to bearer of the Governor of the Territory, the Agent of the Federal Governm"
on the 2" December 1835. & that this issue of Bonds also received the tacit approbation of Congress by not having been disapproved at its ensuing Session—

3° That on 10 Feb 1838 the Governor of the Territory of Florida approved an act " which also finds itself tacitely sanctioned by Congress, relieving the stockholders of the Bank of Pensacola of all personal responsibility, whilst on the 28* June 1841—the Governor of the same Territory calls upon the Bond Holders to attach the property of said stockholders!—
4° That by documents transmitted to Congress upwards of 2 years ago & figuring among its Public documents to the extent of 300
pages it is seen that so far back as November 1839 the Rail Roads
& other property of the Bank of Pensacola hypothecated to the Territory for her endorsment to bearer of the above $500.000, Bonds had been suffered to be shipped to New York or sold—
that these acts not having been disapproved by the Governor of the Territory & Congress remain tacitely sanctioned by them—
and yet with the knowledge of these facts the Governor of the Territory on the 28 June 1841 for the first time calls upon the Bond Holders to attach property he knows to be out of the possession of the Bank of Pensacola or the reach of its Creditors!!—
Trusting that you will see the necessity of bringing the whole of this matter before Congress at an early day of its coming Session "-
I am respectfully Your Obt Servant EDM J FORSTALL
NEW ORLEANS 29 November 1841—
[Endorsed] Recd. with a note from the Pres" on the 4" of Jany.
1842.78
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO RICHARD D. A. WADE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF WAR, Washington, December 6" 1841.</place-time>
<docbody>CAPT" R. D. A. WADE, 3"Artillery, Fort Lauderdale, East Florida.
SIR, Your report of the 13" of November, made to Major Childs,”
your immediate commanding officer, has been transmitted to this Department from the Head Quarters of the Army of Florida.
The expedition under your command from Fort Lauderdale, Judiciously planned and skilfully executed which resulted in the destruction and capture of the enemy equal in numbers to your own force, is so highly creditable to you, to Lieutenant Thomas and Assistant
7" Fla. (Terr.) Acts, 1838, pp. 52-53.

Surgeon Emerson, the only officers of your command, as to demand from this Department this distinct recognition of the gallantry and merit of the officers, and the efficiency and bravery of the men under your command."
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO JOHN M. MOORE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office, TALLAHASSEE Decr 6"1841.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 17" Ulto" (only just received, oweing to repeated failures of the mail for the last 2 weeks)
I shall avail myself of the occasion to express my views fully on the subject of future surveys, when my promised report is made after the receipt of the survey now in progress at S" Marks and which I
apprehend will be delay’d beyond the period contracted for, arising from the floods of rain which have fallen upon us for several days back— The deputy has reported suspension for a short period untill the high tides and waters shall have subsided, and I do not beleive now that his report can be received in all this month I have written to Surveyor Ming to apply in all this month for payment of the Survey of the Indian reservation on the Appalachicola River, stating, that no definited advice had yet been received from Washington of the approval by the President of the Survey and division of the two reservations of the Indian chiefs as set forth in the Diagrams forwarded on the 20" August 1839—this claim of Survey will form another item due previous to the 4" March last, and the only one apertaining to this office—amounting to $149.52.
I would respectfully solicit a final adjustment of my a/cs, that the same may be embraced in the a/cs to be renderd at the close of the present year, and that the balance due me may be remitted by draft on the Receiver here, as I find difficulty in obtaining the funds from Appalachicola on the last draft sent me by your request, unless I
were to send a special agent for it at the expense of the government-
I have written Mr Floyd on the subject advising him of the existence of the draft and requested to Know, whether or not he can make any arrangement for its payment without incurring such expense I would suggest the propriety of an order from the President thro'
the department reserving all the land between the Town Plan of S' Marks and the south boundary of “Forbes Purchase” lying be-

tween the Waculla and S. Marks rivers (not otherwise appropriated for the future extension of said Town as contemplated by the Com missioners in their report attached to the plan forwarded in 1830
and which has been approved by Congress the object in desiring it now, is to prevent the location of pre-emptions thereon after th Survey shall have been made and reported by this Office I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Mo Obdt Sert ROBERT BUTLER Surf General J. M. MOORE Esqr Actg. Comm' Gen' L. Office P.S.. I am advised by the Receiver that he will not be able to pay the salary a/c of this office at the close of the year, unless funds shal be received in this month, or a draft from the Treasurer for the am
$750. is forwarded, as all the funds on hand are alone subject to th Control of the Treasurer—I have to request that such a draft may be sent him Yrs R.B. S.G.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Florida Dec 6, 1841 R. Butler S.G. Ack receipt of Com" letter of 17. Ult" Will give his views on the subjec of future surveys when his report is made, after the rec" of Survey now in progress at S*Marks, which, owing to high tides, will not be completed this month. Solicits a final adjustment of his a/c" a the close of the present year &c. Suggests the propriety of an orde from the President, reserving all the land between St Marks & th South boundary of “Forbes Purchase” for the future extension o S" town—Is advised by the Rec' that he will not be able to pay th Salary a/c of the S. Genl" office at the close of the year, &c Submitted to Sec of Treasury with Comm” letter of 8th Jany 1842. Se Secretary’s answer Jany 12 1842.” & Comm" instructions to S
Gen' of th Jany. 1842.* W.T.S. Dec 18, 1841 M Steiger WILLIAM J. 
<dochead>WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd. W 539: LS]</source>
No. 88
H" Qurs. Army of Florida TAMPA Dec 15" 1841.
SIR: I have the honor to report, for the information of the general in-chief, that events in this quarter and westwardly recalling m from the Everglades I reached this post on yesterday.
I had advanced with a small detachment (20 men) as far as th north-eastern extremity of the Cypress & into the Everglades unti I met the boat expedition from the Atlantic under Major Childs On the 9" instant, I gave to the operations of that officer a direction

to the head waters of the Locha Hatchee the supposed range of Jones' band; communicated by note, with Captain M*Laughlin, commanding the Naval force, suggesting a new direction to his operations; dispatched instructions to Capt. Wright, 8" Infantry, who entered in boats by Maleo river from the Gulf side, and sent fresh orders to Major Belknap having the immediate direction of the command within the Cypress. The last report of this indefatigable officer, as also copies of the several instructions refered to are herewith forwarded.
I greatly apprehend that the Prophets party, weak and contemptible in numbers, has passed from the Cypress to a lake situated in a mangrove swamp near to Key Biscayne; to that point I have directed, in respect to the forces under my orders, & suggested in regard to those of the Navy, a movement. If not secured at the present moment, this band, completely environed as it is, must ultimately fall into our possession; meantime as to any thing like offensive operation it is perfectly innoxious.
At least two-fifths of the country between the Carlos-hatchee &
the Cypress is under water. In the last mentioned place, as well as in the approaches to it, the troops suffered almost incredible hardships & privations; but without a murmur, both officers and men evincing their habitual energy and constancy.
I have now out from this place efficient messengers to meet, at appointed rendezvous, the Creek leaders, whose bands alone remain
(the Tallahassees being all secured) as objects of apprehension or harm to the settlements, & I do not entertain a doubt of having them in my camp within the present moon. This accomplished I shall feel it my duty, & be prepared to sustain myself before the Army, the Government, and the country in reporting the War as ended—in so far as any circumstance of number and position of the enemy, can by any just mode of reasoning, or fair view of the case entitle it to that distinction—with a plahs of the dispesitieh ef proposition to withdraw all the forces, with the exception of two, possibly for a short period with a view to reassure the people, three regiments, and an immediate reduction of the whole establishment to the wants of such a force on ordinary service. Meantime I feel fully justified in saying in advance that not one dollar extraordinary need be asked of Congress. In a few days I hope to go more into detail on these points.”
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Your Ob" Serv"
W.J. WORTH Cole Comg TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL U.S. Army Head Quarters Washington.

[Endorsed] 539 No 88 Head Qrs. Army of Flo Tampa Decr. 15/41
W.J. Worth Col. Com" reports operations in the Everglades, and measures taken to bring in the Creeks. Encloses documents from
1. to 10. inclusive.” Respectfully laid before the Major Genl. &
Sec: Of War. R. Jones Recol Dec 29."
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Print. and Distrib. of Laws:ALS)</source>
<place-time>WASH" Dec 28. 1841</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to repeat in this form the subject of a personal recommendation made a few days since.
There are three principal divisions of Florida. East. Middle, and West. The distribution of the employment to print the laws has always been made heretofore with reference to these divisions, until the last session, when one paper in East. Flo. & two in Middle Flo.
were selected, to the exclusion of West Flo entirely. The Pensacola Gazette in W. Flo. had always before been employed, and I w”
respectfully suggest that the ancient arrangement be restored, in order that the people of W. Flo. may have equaly with the rest of the Terry. the advantage of a promulation of the public laws thro'
this accustomed channel of intelligence.
I would also respectfully recommend the appointment of the Florida Herald at St Augustine, for East Flo. and of the Floridian at Tallahassee for middle Flo.—Both these were the first newspapers established in their respective districts, and having a wider circulation than any other will allow a more general diffusion among the people of the laws.
I have the honor to be with great respect Yr Obt St D. LEVY
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER Secretary of State.
[Addressed] Hon. Daniel Webster Secy of State Washington
[Endorsed] 2 Sess" of 27th Florida.
W. Florida 1. Pensacola Gazette E. Florida 2. Florida Herald at St Augustine.
Mid. Florida || 3 The Floridian at Tallahassee.
recommended by D. Levy Decr 1841. remarks on the distribution of the appointments of publishers of the laws. M' Hill

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office ST AUGUSTINE Jan, 3" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR On my return from the Circuit last Saturday evening (the
1" Inst) I received your letter of the 17th Ult * enclosing a letter from Nathan Sargent Esqr * to you respecting a Brig at the mouth of St Johns River (supposed to be) destined for Dunns Lake for the purpose of obtaining Live oak from the public lands, in which you request me to take prompt measures to secure the timber against the contemplated depredations & to bring the trespassers to punishment: in reply to which I have the honour to observe that I have instituted the necessary enquiry to ascertain if such a vessel is in the St Johns & if so what is her object and destination, & if I find there is such a vessel bound for Dunns Lake to procure Live oak timber, I will use every effort to prevent her crew from committing depredations on the public lands: it is proper however for me to observe that there are upon this Lake a number of private claims many of which have (or had) upon them valuable Live Oak timber but I have not heared of any contracts lately for selling such timber there. Agreabley to your request I herewith return the letter of Mr Sargent.”
And am Sir with great respect Your obedient Servant THO DOUGLAS
HON. A. P. UPSHER Secretary of the Navy City of Washington
[Endorsed] Dist. Attorney. St Augustine 3 Jany 1842 File A 218
Jan  Hamans file 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE PRESIDENT TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>[Received January 4, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>D* SIR There appears to be a good deal of force in Gov. Call's views upon the responsibility in the first instance, for the Bonds—
The holders would manifest their wisdom I think, by ceasing to write and suing either the Bank or last endorsers—The Territory

would certainly be liable upon proof of the insolvency of the Bank *
Yrs J TYLER
Mr WEBSTER
[Endorsed] Recd. Jany. 4" 1842. John Tyler THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 5" 1842.</place-time>
HON. D. LEVY, House of Representatives.
SIR, I have the honor to inform you that although the utmost confidence is felt by this Department in the activity and foresight of Colonel Worth, and although it is believed that the most efficient measures have been taken by him for the protection of the inhabitants of Florida, and probably the very measures here deemed proper, yet that instructions will go to him by this day's mail," to move down one company of Dragoons from Thigpens," and the company from Fort White,” and also to move up the two companies of Dragoons now with him, and to place these troops South of the white settlements, one company East of the St John’s and the others West of that river.
Orders have also been given to the Quarter Master General to provide at least fifteen saddle horses at each post occupied by Infantry or Artillery, if that number is not already there. And Colonel Worth has been requested to renew his instructions to all the Officers under his command, and particularly those in charge of posts, to keep scouting parties continually out to watch the approach of any hostile Indians, and to trace their steps.
Every officer in charge of a post, having already full discretionary authority to employ all his force in expelling and destroying the foe will he held as strictly responsible for the performance of his duty, as if he were the Commanding Officer of all the forces assembled on that frontier. In fact each one exercises a separate, and to a great extent, an independent command."
J.C.S.

</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., L 6:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON Jany. 5, 1841 [1842]</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to acknowledge rec" of y' leter of today, which has this moment reached me. While I recognize in it the disposition for which I have to thank you to afford protection to the unfortunate inhabitants of the Florida frontier, let me take the liberty to say that I regret you have deemed it necessary to that purpose to withdraw the two mounted companies from Fort White and Thigpens.
Those two companies are well posted upon the usual war track of the savages in their incursions into those parts of the country. The company at Thigpens especially cannot be removed without leaving the whole county of Nassau, and parts of Colombia and Duval Counties exposed to constant and imminent danger. It was placed there only after sad experience of its necessity, and from the topography of the country it is quite impossible that the company can be so disposed of south of the settlements as to give any security whatever to that region of country.
The employment of an active and constantly moving force along the southern line of settlements is certainly desirable—and will be useful, but let me beseech you not to supply that force by the withdrawal of the two companies of dragoons from positions so important to be maintained.
I regret exceedingly to be thus troublesome, but I am impelled by a feeling which I know will a responce in your own bosom, that of grief for the condition of the people I represent, and a desire to arrest the further wanton sacrifise of life, You, may depend upon it, Sir, that local experience and information are not unworthy to be regarded, in aid of military arrangements, especially in respect to hostilities of the charachter now waging in Florida.
The discretion of the officer charged with the protection of the frontier is the best dependence for the success of that object. The abandonment or occupation of particular positions, or the mode of employing the force, cannot be safely prescribed here. The officer on the spot can alone judiciously arrange these details. All that can be done here, without danger, I would most respectfully suggest, is to supply adequate means, and proper officers. A force of the proper description, under an officer invested with free discretion in the use of that force for the purpose of protection is what I have ventured to ask for. Whether that officer was directed to report to the Comm” officer in Florida, or directly to Washington, would be immaterial; the great object being to have an active and zealous

officer, always present upon the frontier, commanding a sufficient force, and invested with a sufficient discretion, to hold him to direct responsibility.
After the long and patient attention you devoted to the subject on yesterday, while I had the honor to be with you, I am constrained to ask excuse for this recurrance to it, brief as it is. *
I have the honor to be With very great respect Your Obedt Servt D. Levy
[Addressed] Hon. John C Spencer Secy at War
[Endorsed] 6 Hon. D. Levy Washn. Jany 5. 1842 Asks protection for the frontier settlements of Florida—& hopes the 2 comp" of Drag" be not removed from Fort White & Thigpens. See letter addressed to Col. Worth the 4" instant.” It is doubtful whether, under that letter, Col° W. will order the 2 troops of Dragoons stationed in the north of Florida, to the South of the settlements—
unless he should feel certain that he has secured all the Creeks who have been the murderers in that quarter heretofore. The Col” if any of the Creeks remain out will probably order up from the South two troops to the line across from Micanopy to S'
Augustine. The Floridians are most anxious to obtain two objects, 1. To get their men & horses in the pay of the U.S., 2. Failing in that object, next to have as many of the U.S. troops placed on the defensive as possible, & not to defend by offensive operations. The longer the war can be protracted the better for them, provided that the settlements are, in the meantime, protected by a sedentary force. Winfield Scott Jan. 6, 1842. Nothing further in my opinion can be done, to give protection to the settlements, than confide the duty to the Commanding officer in Flordia who should direct the protection as well as offensive operations and no force should be employed to be independant of his authority. Nassau is one of three routes which the Ind" have, heretofore used between the south, or Ocklawaha, and the Okefonokee Swamp in Georgia—the last, I believe, was in Aug. 1840. S. Churchill Ins' Gen Jan. 15. Adjt General L. 11, Rec" Jany 17, 1842, Rec" 18. Jany 1842
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW, Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF WAR, January 6" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY, House of Representatives.
SIR, Your note of the 5" instant was received yesterday. I
beg you to believe that any communications or representations

you think proper to make, particularly on the subject of the protection of the inhabitants of Florida, so far from being deemed troublesome, will be received with pleasure and considered maturely.
The term “instructions” used in my note of the 5" in reference to the communications to Colonel Worth, is stronger than it should be on the subjects of providing horses and continual scouting. Colonel Worth was instructed and his attention was most urgently called to the adoption and continuance of the most effectual means for the protection of the inhabitants of Florida, and as one of those means, the posting of the companies of Dragoons South of the line of settlements. But the disposition of the particular companies was left to his discretion. *
Upon the most mature deliberation, aided by your suggestions and the counsels of the most able and experienced officers, I am satisfied that means adequate to the protection of the Floridians, and of the proper description have been furnished, and that they are placed at the disposal of Officers on the spot who have free discretion—When I say adequate means, I intend all the means which could be of any service without covering the frontier with a cordon of troops placed as near to each other as they could stand. There are now more thah twelve hundred men employed on the frontier for the purposes of defence and protection while, the residue of our military force is engaged in active pursuit of the enemy. More than this can scarcely be asked. The nature of the warfare and the character of the enemy render it impossible by human means to furnish perfect protection. The sacrifice of life and the expenditure of millions, already made for this purpose, attest the truth of the remark.
I appreciate the feelings which excite you to make every effort in your power for the relief of your constituents, neighbors and friends, and with entire respect for your opinions, I must yet make allowance for those feelings, which induce you to wish an impossibility to be accomplished, and lead you to suggest means which will add little or nothing to those now vigorously employed." J.C.S
</docbody>
<dochead>ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Lets. from GLO to ST:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, January 8th. 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to invite attention to the last paragraph of the enclosed letter from Robert Butler the Surveyor General of

Florida to this office of the 6th Ultimo," suggesting the propriety of reserving by order of the President all the land between the town plan of St Marks (Florida) and the southern boundary of “Forbes purchase” lying between the Waculla and St. Marks rivers, not otherwise appropriated, for the future extention of said town; and would respectfully recommend that the same may be submitted for the sanction and approval of the President.”
I am, Sir, very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
E. M. HUNTINGTON Commissioner TO THE HON. WALTER FORWARD Secretary of the Treasury.
P.S. Please return the letter of the Surveyor Gen' to this office.
[Endorsed] Com' answered Jan 12. 1842.” C.245. Jan. 8.
</docbody>
<dochead>PHILO C. FULLER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., F 7:LS]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, Appointment Office Jan 10, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, On the 9th November 1839, the then Sec of War transmitted to this Department, with his concurrence, a letter from Col. Harney,” recommending the establishment of a Post Office at Key Biscayne, Florida, for the accommodation of the troops in that quarter. The office was accordingly established and Lieut. T. W.
Sherman, 3° Art., Act” Asst. Q.M., appointed to be Postmaster, who has neglected to fulfil the requirements of the law, -not having, either executed an official bond, rendered accounts or made any payments to the Department. The discontinuance of the office is, therefore, proposed, but, before finally deciding the case, the favor of your advice relative thereto is requested by the Postmaster Gen.'"
Very respectfully. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your ob" Serv"
PH: C. FULLER 2nd Asst. P.M. Gen!
HON: JOHN C. SPENCER. Secretary of War.
[Addressed] Hon: John C. Spencer Secy. of War Washington
[Postmarked] Post Office Dept

[Endorsed] Post Office Dept. Jany 10, 1842. Ph: C. Fuller. Proposes discontinuance of P. Office at Key Biscayne Flo. as L" Sherman has never made any returns to the Dept. F. 7. Rec" Jany 11, 1842 Comdg General F-7 (58) There can be no use in a post office at Key Biscayne as there are no troops stationed at or near the place, & there are no inhabitants, Lieut. Sherman, at the last dates was in the Everglades. Respectfully Submitted Winfield Scott, Jan. 11, 1842.
</docbody>
<dochead>ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE January 13" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>To ROBERT BUTLER Esq." Surveyor General Tallahassee Flor. Ter.
SIR By a communication from the Secretary of the Treasury of the 12" instant* in reply to a letter from this Office of the 8"
instant "submitting your communication of the 6" Ultimo " it appers that your suggestion to reserve all the land between the town plan of St Marks (Florida) and the Southern boundary of “Forbes’ Purchase” lying between the Waculla and St Marks river, not otherwise appropriated for the future extension of said town, has upon the recommendation of this Office been submitted to the President and approved by him, you will therefore please designate and return the same on the plats accordingly.
As regards the approval of the surveys & locations made for certain Indian Chiefs referred to in your letter, that is a matter requiring the action of the Department of War, to which the attention of that Dep" has been repeatedly called by this Office but on which the necessary action has not yet been had.
This being the case I do not see that there is any good reason for withholding payment of M* Mings account for the surveys provided the work has been executed by him in a proper manner according to your instructions.
In reference to the final adjustment of your Surveying accounts, it has been delayed chiefly on account of the new difficulty attending the item as now claimed by you for Office rent and fuel, presenting a very large excess over the amounts heretofore claimed by you in the regular estimates submitted with your past annual reports

which will require further action of the First Comptroller and will receive early attention from this Office"
You also state in your letter that the Receiver at Tallahassee will not be in funds to pay your Salary account for the past 4" Qr.
of 1841, in that case the proper course if you shall not have already done so, will be for you to forward the account and Vouchers to this Office and the amount found due, will be remitted to you by warrant direct from the Treasury *
I am Sir, very respectfully Your Ob' Serv"
E. M. HUNTINGTON Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE TERRITORIAL JUDGES TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Jan” 14. 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON DAVID LEVY, Delegate in Congress, from Florida, SIR Appropriations we learn have been made for Law libraries for the Courts of appeals of other Territories, and we have been informed applications from Florida, for a similar appropriation, have been favorably acted upon by Congress, and perhaps granted although the monies appropriated have never been applied.
Certainly there is no Territory where such appropriation would be more useful. There are many important cases depending at times in this Court in which the U. S. are interested. There is great difficulty in the Judges obtaining law books here, as we are without a public law library, and as it cannot be expected Counsel will except in cases where they are concerned permit their libraries to be sent to the Court House for the use of the Court.
We are informed the Legislative Council will apply for an appropriation by Congress for a library for the use of this Court, and we would respectfully request you to urge its allowance as necessary to promote a proper and correct administration of the laws.

_-______
We presume $5000 would be sufficient and would suggest that the fund should be expended under the direction of the Court and the Library placed under its control by the act."
Very respectfully Yr obt servants DILLON JORDAN Prest Wm. MARVIN Judges of the S W CARMACK Court of Appeals I. H. BRONSON of Florida.
SAML. JA" DOUGLAS
[Endorsed] Florida—members of the Bar—Mem" of members of the Bar for app" for Library–Dec. 27" 1842 * Ref" to Com" on the Territories—Jan” 19 1843 11—Bill 698 Dec: 27th 1842 Refd to the Comm” of Territories Wisconsin 20 April 1836 Iowa–June
12 1838 THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN, Lets of Appointment, Bk. 15]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT 17" January 1842</place-time>
<docbody>CAPT" HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE, Agent for the preservation of Timber on public Lands in East Florida, Washington, D.C.
SIR, You are hereby appointed the agent of this Department for the preservation of Timber on the public Lands in East Florida.”
It will be your duty to Superintend and preserve from waste, destruction, removal and from every Species of depredation, all the Timber & wood growing on the Said Lands: and the Department relies upon your unremitting exertions and a prompt resort to all proper means within your power, to the effectual discharge of this duty.
If necessary, you will invoke not only the assistance of the civil authority, but likewise, So far as it can be lawfully given, that of the officers of the army & navy, for the successful & complete accomplishment of the important trust committed to you.
It is distinctly to be understood that you will abandon all private concerns of your own and others, & that you will devote your whole time & attention to the business of your public Station.

You will report monthly, and oftener if necessary, Statements in detail making the Department minutely acquainted with all your proceedings. For all information necessary to enable you to designate private from public lands you will apply to the Land Office at St Augustine.
The public interest renders it desirable that you should proceed with all practicable despatch, and enter at once upon the discharge of the duties of your appointment.
You will also be allowed such reasonable expenses as may be necessarily incurred for horse & boat hire, when indispensable to the discharge of your duties. For all such expenses you will take receipts from the persons to whom payments are made, and forward them to the Department with your accounts for Settlement. It is expected that you will observe a rigid economy with regard to these expenses.”
I enclose the blank form of an oath, which you will take, subscribe
& return to the Department."
Yours &c A. P. UPSHUR
</docbody>
<dochead>GEORGE FIELD TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Banks:LS]</source>
<place-time>Southern Life Ins & Trust Co TALLAHASSEE Jan 20, 1842</place-time>
<docbody>TO HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN TYLER President of the United States Washington SIR In the months of January & May 1840 this Institution loaned to the Territory of Florida, Fifty Thousand dollars on the bonds of the Territory signed by Robert R. Reid then Governor, & Thomas H
Austin Treasurer, for the purpose of paying the Militia expenses of the Militia in the service authorized by the United States—These bonds bear 8 proent Interest, the legal rate of the Territory & had about ten years to run—but the full understanding was with the Governor, that as Congress was to make provision for their payment he would at an early period call their attention to it & he doubted not they would be paid at the first or second session of Congress thereafter-
I am informed that the Gov did call the attention of Congress to it, & we were sometime since assured that they would be paid soon-
The interest for the first year was paid out of the United States Treasury, since which no claim has been made, mainly because it was expected the principal would be paid soon-

The “Union Bank of Florida” of this place also about the same time loaned for the same object Fifty Thousand Dollars & I have been informed that the Hon C F. Mercer Cashier of that Bank has realized recently that am" on the Bonds held by them—
The object of this communication is to call the attention of the proper authorities at Washington to the subject in order that the agent of this Institution in New York. J G Bailey Esq may be able to advance our interest in the premises—A very considerable portion of the amount this Company loaned was in New York funds—M" Baily may call upon your Excellency in Washington in reference to this matter—
I have the honor to be Most Respectfully Your Excellency's very Obedient Serv"
GEORGE FIELD Prest of the S. L. In & T. Co Your Excellency may reccollect I called upon you with a note from Tho" H Allen Esq about the 1* Dec last " & submitted some views in reference to a fiscal agent of the Govt which have previously appeared in the prints under the signature of “Southron”—
I cordially approve of the main features of the plan submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury & am delighted with the report on the currency accompanying it—The plan & doctrines therein urged are abidingly popular at the South, whatever politicians at Washington may say or do."
GEO FIELD
[Endorsed] The Secretary of the Treasury will please answer this J.T. S. 192 Feb 1. Ela GABRIEL J. FLOYD TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>APALACHICOLA Jan 21*1842</place-time>
DEAR SIR I hope you will excuse me for not having sooner complied with assurance while in Washington, of soon troubling you in the way of business, the fact is I have had so much to do since I got home that time has been precious D" Price informs me he has tryed to enlist y' influence in favour of geting Saint Joseph made a separate Port of entry, which I would most respectfully second. You know the history of that place, the spirit with which it was begun, the immense outlay in building both Public (or company) and private, the natural advantages to shiping, and the immense sacrifice which must ensue if the place goes down.

If it can be made a Port of entry it will give some importance to the place and property without any additional expense to Gov" St Andrews should be added to it which of itself offers strong reasons for its connection with some place, or office, nearer than Pensacola, it is a great place for smugling negroes &C—I hope therefore you will do what Downing ever promised but never did In relation to this Port you will find by the act 7th May 1822,”
Pensacola is the only Port at which a vessel can enter goods in debenture, this provision was afterwards extended to Key West and should also be extended to this Port For if goods are shipped from any Foreign Port to this with the intention of reshipment for some other Foreign Port or place, it can not be done unless in the same vessel and in prossecution of the same voyage, Therefore look to it Please rememmber me to my old Col Miller and let me hear from you soon I am Very truly yours G J FLOYD
HON DAVID LEVY H. R. Washington
[Endorsed] Florida–Port of Entry St Joseph 227 Coll of Ap" To make St Joseph a Port of Entry. & Ap" a port of Debenture Feb 14
1842 Ref" to the Come" on Commerce is August 3–1842–Comm"
discharged "Terries Levy Levy 345 Commerce JAMES M. GOULD TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Accts. No. 83,573:ALS]</source>
<place-time>STAUGUSTINE, Flo, Jany 22, 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON. W. FORWARD Secretary of the Treasury SIR—I have the honor to enclose to you my account for publishing the Territorial laws of Florida passed at the session of 1841, for settlement.”
Please remit the amount in a draft on New York or Charleston.
I have the honor to be Sir, Very Respectfully Your Obt Servt JAMES M GOULD
[Endorsed] G. 78. Jan. 31. 1" Auditor

[Enclosure: DS]
Account of James M. Gould.
The United States To Ja" M Gould, Dr
1841.
For publishing in the Florida Herald at St. Augustine, Florida Territory. The Acts and resolutions of the Legislative—Council of said Territory passed at its nineteenth session commencing on the First Monday of January 1841. $125.00
1* Auditors Office 31* Jany. 1842 J. WILLIAMS
Comp” Office Feby 1*1842. R. S. BRISCOE, TERRITORY OF FLORIDA County of St. Johns Personally appeard James M. Gould, who being duly sworn deposes and says that he is Editor of the Florida Herald and that the acts and resolutions of the Legislative Council of said Territory passed at its nineteenth session, have been duly published in said newspaper at St. Augustine, Florida.
JAMES M GOULD
Sworn to before me this 27" day of Nov 1841
E B GOULD Judge County Court St. Johns County.”
[Endorsed] No 83,573 Statement of the Account of James M Gould—
Reg" 2nd Feb 1842 Blotter Page 81
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office ST AUGUSTINE Jan 24" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR In order to obtain the desired information respecting the Brig mentioned by Mr Sargent in his letter which you did me the honour (under date of the 17" Ult *) to enclose to me, I found it necessary to proceed to the St Johns River, after having done so, and made due enquiry I am well satisfied that no such vessel has gone up to Dunns Lake or even passed Jacksonville: the Brig Nimrod from New York arrived at the mouth of that river between the 20"
and 30" of last November with about forty men on board who were brought out by Mess” Palmer & Ferris (who reside upon the St Johns River below Jacksonville) to cut Live Oak timber and I
have no doubt was the same vessel which Mr Cooper reported to

Mr Sargent, this Brig took out a Cargo of Live Oak timber, but it was (so far as I can learn, all cut on private land; indeed there is
(said to be) but very little if any public land with such timber on it in the neighbourhood where this cargo was cut, Mess" Palmer &
Ferris have at this time a number of hands cutting Live Oak in the same region of country on private land with which they are said to be loading another vessel at St Johns Bluff. These gentlemen have been engaged in this business many years; have had several large contracts with the Government & have always I believe been very careful not knowingly to trespass upon the public lands, and theirs is the only gang of hands that I have heared of, who are now engaged in cutting Live Oak timber in this District. Should I hear of any other I will endeavour to prevent their trespassing upon public property: and shall deem it my duty to keep a vigilant eye upon this branch of the public interest; untill another special agent shall be appointed for its protection.
With great respect I am Sir yours &c THO DOUGLAS
HON. A. P. UPSHUR Secretary of the Navy City of Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Dist. Attorney–St Augustine 24 Jan 1842 ans" Feb.
12.” A 19 Feb 12 Homans RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL RE PUBLIC
</docbody>
<dochead>ROAD</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[January 28, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas, an appropriation was made in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty eight, by the Congress of the United States for the opening and constructing a Road from Tallahassee to Iola on the Apalachicola River*—And whereas, the said appropriation was not applied to the purposes, for which it was intended, within the time required by law—
And, whereas, the commercial advantages of the City of Apalachicola, and the general good and welfare of its citizens, demand that free and extensive Roads should be opened into the interior of the country, in order to facilitate the transportation of produce, and the

public mails: And, whereas, the opening of a Road from the town of Quincy, in the County of Gadsden, to some point on the Apalachicola Bay or River near the city, is altogether practicable, and would establish a better, and more certain communication between the Bay and the Capital at Tallahassee, and that the same would be of more public utility to the country in general, than the one hitherto contemplated”—Be it therefore Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives, That the Delegate in Congress be requested to urge upon that body the reappropriation of ten thousand dollars, for the purpose of opening and constructing the Road as above designated—
Adopted 28* January 1842
(Att) H ARCHER Chief Clk Ho Rep:
[Endorsed] Florida–Legislature Resolution for the renewal of an appropriation for a Road from Quincy to Apalachicola Bay May 31.
1842 Ref" to Com” on the Territories” Mr Levy ROBERT BUTLER TO ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
No 1.
Surveyor Generals Office TALLAHASSEE February 5" 1842
SIR I have the honor to refer you to the accompanying Diagram drawn from a Map by David H. Burr Top. Engineer of date July 10"
1839 (by act of Congress) Scale 10 miles to the inch exhibiting the surveys of this Office so far as executed on the peninsula of Florida”—
With a view to obtain early Settlements and revenue, when the Indians shall have been removed, I propose the extention of a Meridian line South, from between Ranges 31 & 32 to the point where it shall strike the Gulf of Mexico, throwing off East and West from Township Stations, three Parallels to be numbered 3.4. 5 in continuation, and Surveying on the South of each Parallel a belt of land either three or four Townships deep, as the Department may deem advisable—
It will be remarked that these Surveys will compass the most important inlets on the Gulf and Atlantic Ocean, and is presumed to embrace the most desirable points for Settlements—The future con-

nexians by continuous Surveys may be governed by the developments thus afforded as to the points most desirable to make them in relation.
A confiding power to this Office or an intelligent Engineer detached for the purpose, is solicited in the event the plan shall be adopted, to make the necessary reservations of important scites for the location of Forts for defence, Light Houses for the safety of commerce, and eligible points for the location of Towns, with a view to prevent hereafter the Obtaining these scites by the Government at heavy cost, and in the latter case to put down all attempts of Speculating Companies from preying upon the community by Monopolies and Mismanagement—The happiness of the people and the prosperity of the Country, demands this at the hands of a fostering Government anxious to promote the welfare of its Citizens—The line delineated on the Diagram with their appropriate names and numbers, and the proposed Surveys represented in dotted lines will at once give you a full understanding of my views, and which I hope will be favorably considered—An extensive reservation has been already located at Tampa Bay, and this office advised thereof—Please acknowledge the receipt of this letter and that of corresponding date, with their Accompanying documents at your early Convenience”—
I have the honor to be, very respectfully; Yr M" Ob"S"
ROBERT BUTLER Surv' General E.M. HUNTINGTON Esq Com" G.L. Office Note. The Department will readily understand, that no more of the contemplated Surveys, would be contracted for at one time, than the Office with due diligence can wade through with the Clerks allowed by law; previous to the coming in of a Second set of Contracts. R.B. Suv' Gen.'
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 5 Feb 1842 R. Butler S.G. Transmits a diagram exhibiting the surveys of his office so far as executed, in the peninsula of Florida. Gives his views in detail & makes suggestions in relation to further surveys in that region. Recp'
Ackg" Feby 16 1842* W. T. S. See Comm’s instructions to the Su’
Gen Sept 24 1842* W. T. S. Rec" 14 Feb 1842 Letter to the Commissioner to accompany Diagram of proposed new Surveys—Feb”
5th 1842. No 1.

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF HAZARD</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 7, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>DUVAL COUNTY, St Johns River East Florida To the Hon. The members of the Senate, & House of Representatives, in Congress assembled—
The Petition of the citizens of Hazard, & the adjacent country, respectfully sheweth That Your Petitioners, did on or about the sixth day of last March,”
address a Memorial to the late lamented President of the United States. praying his sanction, to the removal of the Custom House from Jacksonville, & the constituting of this place the Port of Entry, for the District of Saint Johns—a copy of which memorial marked—
Exhibit A-,” is hereto annexed, & prayed to be made a part of this petition.
That not long since Your Petitioners received a communication, from the Hon T Ewing, Secretary of the Treasury, stating in reference to the subject.” That said memorial had been refered to the Treasury Department for action. that the act of Congress, of the 2" March
1831, establishing the District of Saint Johns,” requires—“that the Port of Entry, shall be established at such point on the River St John, as the President may direct.” That President Jackson, then in office, selected Jacksonville, as the proper “point” consequently a change cannot be effected, “without a special act of Congress, directing it to be done”
Now, therefore, Your Petitioners, would respectfully petition, that Your Most Honorable Body, do, at your present session, enact the requisite Law, authorizing, & directing the removal of the Custom House, & the establishing the Port of Entry, at this place–Having without circumlocution, or any attempt at embellishment, set forth in the Memorial the principal reasons that urge Your Petitioners to seek the change; & the advantages that must thereby accrue, not only to the Territory, but to the Federal Government, Your Petitioners deem it superfluous to say more—though it may not be amiss to add—that the channel of the River, is so very intricate that vessels

are compelled to pay River Pilotage—which tax, would in many instances be unnecessary could they enter & clear here—
The Citizens of Palatka, coinciding in opinion with Your Petitioners, have very cheerfully signed a Letter of Recommendation, which Letter, marked Exhibit B—& another from the citizens of Black Creek, marked Exhibit C—are hereunto annexed, & prayed to be made a part of this petition.—
Your Petitioners, likewise attach a Report, addressed at the same time with the memorial to the late universally regretted Harrison, suggesting the propriety of erecting a Fort at the mouth of the River
& establishing at this place a U S Military & Marine Hospital—
which your Petitioners, respectfully submit to your Honorable Body, and as in duty bound will ever pray &c & c—
W" G Christopher Wm A Houston Charles Brown Henry Moore John M Harris Lewis J. Christopher Elias Reynolds Henry M Lindsay James L. Christopher Lewis Christopher Samuel C. Houston J. P. Belknap John Houston Walter Furman James Simms A. M. Andreu John C. Aikley William Simms Hammond Libby Elkanah Rich Master Brig patriot Jonathan French William Doraty E Wilkes J. D. Cathell Master of Sch" Climax Edward R. Insley Thomas Youngs James McKinley Horace Howard Joshua Mansfield Francis Le Roy George Slade Hartley Crooker John Fitzgerald John C. Houston John Campbell Andrew Floyd C F Love Edward Wright Levin Johnson James Richardson H. C. D'Masters Jno C Baker Henry Suanders R. M. Porter Abner Quitterfield BenjF Fish Nathaniel Bunce Stephen B Travis William R. Jones Richard Thomas Geo H Church Jesse M*Kee Michael G Drummond John Simms Jonathan B. Tichnor James Jaggers

F L Q R I D A T E R A H 7" OA Y 431
Edwin Harris George M*Alister master of Schr Alabama Joseph Floyd Stephen B Barnaby mate do do Vandania Simms Charles W Johnson James Floyd Daniel Abbot C. Taylor Master of Schr George Henry
[Endorsed] East Florida–Duval County. Remove Port of Entry from Jacksonville to Hazard Feb. 7" 1842 * Refd to Comm” on Commerce June 24, 1842* Report—to lie–1210 C. 185—June 5. Adams
32 Commerce [Enclosure: DS]
Petition to Congress by Citizens of Palatka Exhibit B. [1841c]
To the Hon. The Members of the Senate & House of Representatives in Congress assembled We the undersigned, Citizens of Palatka, believing it conducive to the general Interest that Hazard, situated immediately at the mouth of the River St John, should be the Port of Entry for the District of S" Johns, & the Custom House there situated, would most respectfully join the citizens of said Town in petitioning Your Honourable Body to “enact at your present session the requisite Laws”.
Henry A Crane J B Smith John Jones Rich" M. Ratcliffe C. Rosenplanter W. H. Cohen J Weber B. Hagen W. Cosmitt Tho” B. Fitzpatrick Hugh Headner HW Maxey Ja. M. Lakenan John Chambers Ja" W Lathrop Joseph L Dutton
[Enclosure: DS]
Petition to Congress by Citizens of Black Creek Exhibit C. [1841c]
To the Hon. The Congress of the United States The undersigned, residents of Black Creek, fully concurring in the sentiments expressed in the memorial, & Petition of their fellow

Citizens of Hazard, would most respectfully recommend that their prayer be granted.
Charles J. Watson James M Holland Random La Massé Lewis A Wilkinson Elton E Milton Benjamin W Atkinson Joseph Leighton George Loring Arthur Joseph W. Clarkson John Rose Johnson Micheal H. Petty Nehemiah Stocking William John Rutwilch John L. Lamplighter William Marsh Antonio Neometh Samuel I Spencer J M*Romaine
[Enclosure:C]
William G. Christopher et al. to the President
[1841c]
TO HIS EXCY WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
We the undersigned residents of Hazard, beg leave most respectfully to Report—That save the old Spanish Fort, erected at the city of S” Augustine, the sea coast from Savannah is exposed & unguarded.
That in the event of a War with any of the European Goverments, no earthly power in our present defenceless state, could prevent the landing of an army, & the consequent capture of this place & the adjacent country. That the Saint Johns River, navigable almost to its source, the Lands on either side surpassed by none in Florida, the tide of emigration that must flow here, when Your Excellency's decisive & energetic measures, shall have rid our beloved Country of the merciless Seminole, & the Implements of Warfare, shall have given place to the utensils of husbandry, require, in our humble opinion, & we would respectfully ask of your Excellency, if the safety
& security of the people of Florida, & the Interest of the people of the United States generally, do not also require, the erection of a Fort, at the mouth of this River—
From the statements of the Pilots, we are convinced that at comparatively a very trifling cost, a “Break Water” could be constructed on the Bar, that would permit the crossing (at low water,) of vessels drawing Fifteen feet—This facility with the rapid settlement of the Country, will warrant the arrival of many vessels. & though our climate is superior to most others, for the general salubrity of its atmosphere, we cannot but expect that seamen, exposed as they necessarily are, to every vicissitude of heat & cold, will suffer from disease, & as humanity & philanthropy, loudly call for it we would suggest to your Excellency, the propriety of establishing a US
Military, & Marine Hospital, at this place—
(Signed) W* G CHRISTOPHER
HARTLEY CROOCKER &c. &c &c

</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF WASHINGTON COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 7, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Congress of the United States We the citizens of Washington County Florida, respectfully represent to your honourable boddy the impassible and bad condition of the road leading from Pensacola to Marianna Florida by the way of Holms Valley, The small population of this part of the country renders it impossible to the inhabitants to keep it in repairs, And ask of your honourable boddy, A Small appropriation to be applied to the repairs of said road, Crossing the Choctawhatchie at the most convienient place and following the road heretofore traveled by the U.S. Mail, being recognized as the nearest the best, and most Safe that can be had to intercect with the Mail road at Macon Georgia *
February 7th 1842
Petitioners Names Jn" M. Long J. C. Harwell John Miller Wm E. DaViS
John Register L. F., Miller Ashley H. Miller M. S. Clark John W. Cook James Ferguson Stephen Daniel Jesse B Lassitter Lewis H Miller Levi Potter D M Jones John F Miller Gipson Register Leonard Hunt Bartholomee Register William L. Miller James G. Lucas N. Miller John Nelson Samuel T. Russ John McWooten John Forginson Ira S Williams Henry Chason Assigners Names N. A Vaughan Alex H Bright D. I, Mitchell Stephen I Roche David May H. Hudson
[Endorsed] Florida–Legislature Memorial of citizen of Washington County for appropriation to repair road between Pensacola and

Marianna March 29, 1842 Ref" to the Com" on the Territories"—
Jan , 1844 ref" to the Comee on the Territories * Levy 
</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Febry 12, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON SECRETARY OF STATE
DEAR SIR I take the liberty to renew the acquaintance formed in the city of Richmond in Octr 1840; and also to inclose you the Report and Resolution of the Legislative Council of this Territory on the subject of the Salaries of the Judges.” I deem it unnecessary to add one word to what the Committee have said, they sufficiently set forth the reasons why the salaries of the Judges should be increased. Yet I may properly say with regard to myself, that I
reached this place on the 25" of November, and entered upon the discharge of my duties on the 29" of the same month; since which time I have been engaged in Court from Ten in the morning, until nine at night (and very often much later) I have disposed of Two thousand cases, and as many yet remain to be disposed of. I shall not be disengaged from the duties of the bench before the first of June; and shall have disposed of Four thousand cases, common law, criminal & chancery, having had a continuous session of six months.
When I first reached here I found much difficulty in conducting the business of the Court. From the delay in executing the Laws, society had become disorganized, and the best Citizens were unable to withstand the threats of violence made by the offenders. I found that it would require, firmness, promptness & decision, and that it would be necessary to make examples of some of the more hardened offenders, before the Laws & its officers would be respected. I
have pursued this course with unwavering firmness, and it affords me pleasure to be able to say to you I have succeeded beyond my most sanguine expectations Life and property is now secure, the vicious have in many instances been taken and punished, in others they have fled the Territory. I was at first threatened and when that could not succeed, I was then coaxed, but when it was discovered that at all hazards I would do my duty opposition yielded, and I
may say without vanity I have produced a reform which I trust will be lasting

In this work I have been admirably seconded by my Mashal Maj.
Camp, who is fearless, ready & energetic The last week I was engaged in a most laborious and exciting trial. The trial of one of the accomplices in the murder of Gen:
Leigh Reid. The trial lasted four days & the Jury have not yet agreed upon their verdict they have had the matter under consideration for Three days—There was some expectation of an outbreak upon this trial, but I took precautionary measures, & every thing went off quietly. On reaching here I found my predecessors had left the business of several years for me to transact, hence the very arduous nature of my duties at this time. I beg leave to ask if there is no way by which I could be paid for this labour which should have been performed by others, and might may I not be paid my travelling expenses out here, and those incurred in going around my circuet. My salary will not meet my actual & necessary expenses, and at the close of the year I shall be poorer than when I
took upon myself the duties of the office, there is no part of the Union where living is so costly—The situation of this Territory
(especially) the Middle District; is most distressing. It is now literally shingled over with Judgments: this County (Leon) is indebted to the amount of three millions. This arises from the extravegant habits of the people—Some years ago when Cotton was high, and the facilities of procuring money from the Banks great, almost all mortgaged their property in whole or part; and the money this procured was spent in luxury & extravegance & thus entirely lost Now when the Banks themselves are ruened, and there can be no relief from that quarter, it seems to me their situation is almost hopeless. But this is a fine winter climate & they have a teeming soil; and when they discard their extravegant habits & learn to economise, the energies of the Country will & must revive. The question of their admission into the Union as a state, seems to me a very doubtful one even if they desire it. they are not in a situation to support a state Government & it would be an utter failure.
They have no sittled political creed it is all faction. Yet Whig principles seem advancing with the great mass of the people as well as I can judge from the prints & observation. My first quarters Salary was due the 12" of January, but I have heard nothing from it. Should there be any mistake on this subject will you be pleased to have it corrected *
I have the honour to be Your Obt Sevt &"
SAM" JAMES DOUGLAS.
[Addressed] Hon. Daniel Webster Secretary of State Washington
[Endorsed] Rec" Feby 24 M" Dickins S. J. Douglass.

</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE COMMANDING GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 74:LS"]</source>
<place-time>H" Qurs Army of Florida TALLAHASSEE Feby. 14 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>GENERAL: I believe there has been no instance in which, in the removal of indians, some, more or less, have not been left. This unavoidably arises from their wandering life & habits, to which may be added, in the case of the Seminoles, the peculiar character of the country.
I have the honor to submit a statement of the whole number, Seminoles, Micasukeys, and Creeks" now at large, & their general range or location *—This statement has been carefully prepared from the examination of various indians, chiefs & others, of each & every tribe
& band, and at different times. Generally there has been a remarkable concurrance in the statements; nevertheless, in case of discrepancy, the highest number has been assumed. From this statement it appears there are but three hundred and one indians, men, women &
children remaining scattered through the vast & almost boundless swamps of this Territory, of whom, including the aged, incapable of enterprise, and the younger, yet unaccustomed to the use of arms, there are but one hundred and twelve men; a number, it is admitted, sufficient, if kept in a state of irritation by constant & fruitless pursuit, acting upon such & so sparse a population, to do much mischief. Of the number stated, one hundred and forty-three are south, who have never manifested a disposition to approach the settlements, and one hundred and twenty are Creeks who were not original parties to the contest. It may be here reasserted that every diminution of numbers adds to the difficulty of taking the remainder.
The operations since June conclusively demonstrate to my mind the utter impracticability of securing them by main force. The object must be attained by pacific & pursuasive measures or not at all. Every exertion of force, while it tends to make the enemy more wild in his habits and savage in his nature, places the object in view, his total expulsion, more remote; and yet the commander with so large a force, who fails to give it the highest activity, disappoints an inordinate public expectation, while by so doing he defeats the object. The first step, in my judgement, towards closing the contest, if not finish-

ing it, is to reduce the force: this is being done to the extent to which I have authority, & the immediate consequence will be a diminution of five-sixths of the extraordinary expense. After the field operations
(which are general) now going on shall have terminated, it is my purpose, unless otherwise ordered, to place the troops in positions to give protection, and to limit myself to that object. Authority has been asked to order out the remaining companies of the 2" Dragoons, and by the 1" of May one additional regiment of Infantry may be dispensed with. There will then remain three entire regiments & six companies of a fourth regiment. There is a supply of forage & subsistence in the country now equal to the wants of the present force of man & horse for five months, which, on the reduced scale proposed, will answer for eight or ten: and I beg that any further shipments may be suspended until especially called for, and also, if necessary other than under such orders as I may give, that Lieut Col. Whiting, head of the Qur M" Staff, may be instructed as to the manner of disposing of surplus—such as mules, horses, wagons &c.
I ask the instructions of the commanding General on these subjects, & if my suggestions shall be approved, I then invoke authority to say to these people, through friendly indians, that so long as inoffensive, they may remain where they are, and plant & reap in quiet: meantime, to permit the Arkansas delegates, and one or two of the chiefs, now in our possession, whose tribes & families have been sent off, to go among them, and at their pleasure reside with them, availing themselves of the proper time & occasion to reason with, and explain to them their true condition; not doubting that in a few moons they will thereby be induced to come in and ask to be sent to their new homes. Quiet is indispensable to their being made fully acquainted with their isolated position, and also of their weakness, for such has been their dispersion that they are yet to be convinced that many of their proximate & confederate bands have been sent to the West, & also that their strength consists in their power to elude, not to combat their enemies. If this authority be conceded, I propose further to grant them permission to come freely to any of the military posts & trade without restriction.
It is proper here to remark, that measures are in train which give fair assurance, that we shall, within the next month, have in possession one third of the small number stated as remaining out.
While I am fully aware of the delicacy, I nevertheless feel it my duty, respectfully, but seriously, to submit to consideration whither it will be deemed public policy to prosecute this contest for results so uncertain at expense so enormous, & whither the plan proposed would not accomplish the object with equal credit to the country, and more convenience to the Treasury.

I beg that the foregoing views & suggestions may not be considered as arising from any indisposition of the officers or men composing this army to prosecute the contest under any circumstances of duty or hardship; on the contrary to be allowed to avail myself of this occasion to testify to the zeal & energy with which all have, under every circumstance of difficulty & with singleness of purpose, donated themselves to the attainment of the object.
The main purpose of my coming hither was to submit this subject generally to His Excellency Governor Call, & I have much hope of his support & concurrance generally in the foregoing views—As there are many points of detail connected therewith, which would be inconvenient to embody in this report, as also the submission of some explanatory maps, I have deemed it of sufficient importance, & also that I may be more promptly & clearly of the views of the Major-
General Commanding in Chief, to dispatch Major Cooper, chief of the Staff, to General Head Quarters. That officer is fully possessed of my views & reflections upon the subject, & I request that entire confidence may be given to any statements he may make in relation thereto, & that after executing this duty he may be permitted to join me without delay.
Treating of matters other than of military detail I have taken the liberty, which I hope will be excused, of addressing this direct to the General commanding in Chief.”
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Your Most Obd" Sevt.
W. J. WORTH Colonel Commanding MAJOR-GENERAL WINFIELD SCOTT. Commanding in chief H"
Quarters Washington
[Endorsed] 74—W-1842 Col” W.J. Worth, Feb. 14, 1842 to Major Gen Scott. (Rec'd Feb’: 24") Recd. to be entered 12 Mar: 1842.
Plan of ulterior operations or negociations for terminating the removal of the remaining Florida Indians. It is not without much hesitation that, at this distance, I withhold my recommendation from the truce proposed within—considering that the gallant Colonel is thoroughly acquainted with the theatre of operations & the character

of the enemy, & is as distinguished for judgment & intelligence as for zeal & energy. It is not doubted that, by his operations, the
112 warriors, yet remaining of the Florida Indians, will have been considerably reduced, in number, before the end of April. Against the few (if any) that may remain to be secured, after that period, I propose the following means & measures: Send away the five troops of the 2" Dragoons * & the 2" regiment of Infy, which have been longest in Florida, & which are greatly wanted elsewhere. There will then remain the 3" 7" & 8" regiments of Inf & 6 companies of the 4* Inf, in all, 36 companies of regulars, with these regulars, garrison some six or eight posts (for supplies) on the exterior of, & within the theatre of operations.
Place the remainder (with an exception to be made) on a defensive cordon—extending from Middle Florida across to S' Augustine, along the southern line of settlements, & near those settlements.
Detach, from this cordon, from five to seven companies, at a time, to act independently, each company with a few horses for packs & for the sick & wounded—to scour the Indian country. Add, for active operations, from five to ten companies of volunteers, each company to be furnished with a few horses & to act independently, as in the case of the regulars. Proclaim to all in the field, bounties as follows:—for every captured Indian warrior, $500; for every such warrior slain in battle or pursuit, $400, & for the capture of every other Indian, $300. Allow volunteer officers to participate in those bounties, but not regular officers. The latter, for extraordinary services, can be rewarded by brevets. Give the same rewards to heads of Indian families voluntarily coming in for emigration. Send in among the enemy, friendly Indians to proclaim these terms, & thus mix negociations of this character, with active military operations. See Bill submitted by me to M* Secretary Poinsett in Dec. 1839 & Dec.
1840—now in the hands of the present Secretary of War. Volunteers engaging to serve with a view to the proposed tariff of bounties, could not fail to be highly efficient. They should not be mounted & only be furnished, for the purposes above, with a few horses. This is the plan of ulterior operations which I respectfully submit—in outline.
The details can be easily supplied. Winfield Scott. Feb. 25, 1842."
Extracts relating to the Qr. Master's and Com. Genl's Depts furnished

to the chiefs of those depts.—March 14" 1842, [This day rec'd from the hand of M. Genl. Scott who rec'd it from the Sec: of War—who rec'd the same from the President, with whom it appears, it had been left, & forgotten: This is the letter which could not be found, and for which a duplicate was requested of Col. Worth.]" R. Jones, July 26. A.D. 1842.
</docbody>
<dochead>ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, VIII]</source>
<place-time>February 14, 1842</place-time>
<docbody>R. BUTLER S. G. Tallahassee Flor. Ter:
SIR. I have to inform you that the following lands situated in your District, have been reserved for Military purposes by order of the President bearing date the 9" inst, and have to request that you will designate them on the plats in your Office, or where the information will be most conspicuous in those cases where the lands have not been Surveyed and plats returned, as reserved for the purposes specified, to wit:
“At the North point of Amelia Island, Florida, fractional Section eight, township three North, Range twenty nine East, and fractional Section eleven, and lot N* one & two of frac' Section fourteen of township three North, Range twenty eight East.”
“At the entrance of Santa Rosa Sound, Florida, so much of the point opposite to, and East of the East end of Santa Rosa Island as lies in Township two South, Range twenty two West.”
“At the entrance of Pensacola Bay, so much of the public land as lies within one mile of the Fort which has been erected on Foster's Bank, which is nearly opposite to, and West of the West end of Santa Rosa Island.”
And “At the entrance of Perdido Bay, so much of the public land which lies in Florida, as is contained in Township four South, Range thirty-three West:”
Instructions for carrying the above order into effect have likewise been this day given to the Registers & Receivers at Tallahassee &
St Augustine.
I am Sir Very respy Your Ob Serv E. M. HUNTINGTON Comm

MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY THE MAYOR AND ALDER-
</docbody>
<dochead>MEN OF ST. AUGUSTINE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess. :DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 14, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate & House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.
The Memorial of the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of St. Augustine, Respectfully Sheweth:
That since the construction of the Sea-Wall in front of the City, the inhabitants have been subjected to those autumnal diseases which have hitherto scarcely been known throughout the whole period of its history: That in the years 1839 & 1841, the fevers incident to most of the Southern Latitudes raged with great violence cutting off in the meridian of life, some of our most estimable and valued citizens: And the general belief is, that these visitations are to be ascribed principally, if not altogether, to the Miasm that arises from the accumulations that are naturally left behind the wall by the ebbing and flowing of the tides;
And your Memorialists further represent, That it is the opinion of our Medical men, that the filling up of the space behind the wall would abate the nuisance as complained of by the Grand Jury of St.
John's and Mosquito Counties, as appears by their Presentment hereunto annexed,” and restore to our City its wonted Character for health.
Your Memorialists therefore respectfully pray, That your Honorable body would grant to the said City of St. Augustine, an appropriation of a sufficient sum of money to effect that object: and for further information, your Memorialists would refer to such plans and estimates as the Engineer department at Washington may be enabled to furnish.
And your Memorialists, as in duty bound, &c.
E B GOULD, Mayor City of St. Augustine MANUEL CRESPO
PEDRO BENET
[Seal] MATHEW SOLANO
JoHN M. FoNTANE
Aldermen, By the Mayor and Aldermen.
P. B. DUMAS, Clerk of the Council "

[Endorsed] Florida Memorial of Mayor & Council of St Augustine asking an appropriation to fill up the grounds along the sea wall erected in front of the city. February 14*1842 referred to Committee on Territories *Territories May 26, 1842 Bill reported N° 444 Levy *
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF MADISON COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 14, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable Senate & House of Representatives in Congress assembled—
We the undersigned Citizens of Madison County, Middle Florida, respectfully represent to your Honorable body, that it is extremely essential to the interest of the inhabitants of this County that Cedar Key, (that now in the occupancy of the Gen' Government, near the mouth of the Suwannee river.). be made a Port of Entry. for the Suwannee, that the cotton and other produce made for shipment in the County, is transported over land by Wagons. at a great expense, to Port Leon, now the nearest point for shipment—this mode of transportation, is attended, not only with a heavy expense to the cultivator, but with danger from the Indian enemy; to the property; The valuable lands within the limits of this County; the lines of which run for the distance of one Hundred and fifty miles along the Suwannee river, are rendered almost valuless to the owners—for want of nearer point than Port Leon—for shipment of the produce, from them; We also petition your Honorable body, for an an appropriation of a sum of money to remove obstructions to the navigation of the Suwannee river, to all of which, we respectfully ask of your Honorable body a favourable Consideration. at the earliest practicable period—
Names

443
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60 Jesse Took W. L. Took Madison C. Livingston David Pridgen Lewis Berry Thomas M Palmer E Lane John B. Spencer Alexander Davis Cotesworth. L. Carruth Cyprian T. Jenkins Christopher C Coffee Joshua B Coffee William I Coffee Adonivann Vann Albert. G. Osgood Jas. Livingston A Danel Charles, A, Scott Charnick Selph G. Scott T. J. Lenton Geo. H. Smith D. H. Mays Sherrod Edwards Sol: Rouse Jno Selph C. J. Fletcher J. L. Fletcher A. I Lann Lewis Lanier J. H. Patterson W. R. Patterson W" McKenney Dan Wiggins Jno Wiggins T. M. Anderson D R Townsend Allen Townsend Jno. B. Elkins
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100 Jno. CoRn Jno. G. Putnam Jno Derricot Silas Coker Ja” Wallan Wm Wallan Fred: Butler Ben. Edward Jno. C. White W L. Wade Wm Bridge Jno Bridge C Lamb W" Langford Sen"
W" Langford Ju'
Tho" Langford L. A. Thomas M. Lamb A. Lamb Jno Westcott John S Broome John Broome Alex D Rose Joshua Stafford Jno. Poppell D A Henderson Ben Townsend Jno Hurst Wm Hemby B. F. Drew A. Blackburn Jno. W. Riggs.
E. Riggs Jno. W. Anderson Tho" Lipscomb Lenoard Lipscomb Ben: Lipscomb Jno S Wyche George Wyche D. McIntire
[Endorsed] Florida Memorial of John C M*Gehee and 100 other inhabitants of Florida praying the establishment of a Port of Entry

at Cedar Key—and an app" to improve the navigation of Suwannee River. Februy 14* 1842 referred to the Committee on Territories * Comm” of Territories Dec 28 1842* Refd to the Committee on the Territories Dec. 29, 1843.” Commerce. Dean Levy.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF SAMUEL.J. DOUGLAS AS JUDGE (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[February 15, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of SAMUEL J. DOUGLASS, I have nominated and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate "Do appoint him Judge of The United States for the Middle District of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said SAMUEL J. DOUGLASS, for four years from the day of the date hereof.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the fifteenth-day of February in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortytwo—and of the Independance of the United States of America, the sixtysixth.
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, DAN WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from GLO to ST:ALS]</source>
<place-time>GEN" LAND OFFICE Feb. 22d 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR In accordance with your verbal request of yesterday, I have the honor to state the following facts in regard to the discrepancy in

the accounts of Robt. Butler Esq Surv. Gen' at Tallahasse Florida—
The sum of $10.000 was remitted to him by warrant N° 3149 bearing date the 22" of April 1831.—It was discovered in the adjustment of his accounts at this office in 1835, that he had credited $2000 less than the amount of the warrant, nor did he credit the $2000 until after Dec 1840, when another adjustment of his accounts was made—From the fact that he promptly in his next quarterly accounts (after being advised of the error) credited the U.S. with the amount of the discrepancy, this office in answer to charges files against him by Mess"
Williams * & English "his former chief clerks, expressed the opinion that the error in question was one of so glaring a character and so easy of detection, that it must have originated purely in mistake—
that the very character of the error was calculated to rebut any imputation of fraud on the part of Mr Butler—This was the substance of the opinion then expressed—From the inclosed papers however, (being copy of a letter from Mr Butler to this office of 23* Oct. 1841" in answer to letter from this office of Oct. 13. 1841" a copy of which is also enclosed, and a letter of the 27" of Jan. 1842” to the first comptroller from this office with the answer of the Comptroller thereto, together with voucher N° 2 of Rob" Butler Surv. Gen'in relation to office rent &
fuel) it will be seen that he has since charged in his accounts (2"
Quarter of 1841) $5595 for office rent and fuel, after having estimated from time to time in his annual reports laid before Congress and printed, only $2680 for the same, thus making a difference of $2915 in his favor—This excessive charge has been rejected by the Comptroller, and viewed in connection with the item of $2000 credited on the account of the preceeding quarter, it is for you to say whether it has not the appearance of being an afterthought, and a design on the part of Mr Butler to indemnify himself at the expense of the U.S. for the
$2000–If the facts should justify such an inference it is manifestly the duty of the President to transfer the important interests now confided to him, to other hands.”
I am Sir very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
E. M. HUNTINGTON Com”
HON WALTER FORWARD Sec. of the Treas.

[Endorsed] Gen Land Office Feb 22/42 Charges Against Rob"
Butler Surveyor of Florida Papers returned to Com Sept 27, 1842.
respg Surveyer Gen Florida this is the report which you sent out this morning as you supposed Respy M*C. Y."
</docbody>
<dochead>W. B. TAYLOR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess:ALS]</source>
<place-time>PENSACOLA Feb. 22. 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HONL: D. LEVY Delegate from Florida SIR. The accompanying Memorial to Congress Signed by Citizens of this vicinity has been placed in my hands to forward to you.
Every part of this Territory is so directly interested in the establishment of defences along the Gulf Coast, that I feel very sure, from your acknowledged zeal for your Constituents, this Memorial will have your earnest attention; but it is the hope of the Memorialists that under your auspices this measure so often urged and so long neglected, may finally be examined and decided upon its merits singly;—not in view of mere Territorial or local advantage, but as a measure of great national Concernment, particularly addressing itself in the present juncture of public affairs to the grave Consideration of the Statesman and Legislator.
I have the honour to be Sir Very respectfully your ob st W B TAYLOR.
[Addressed:] Hon: D. Levy. Delegate from Florida
[Enclosure:DS"]
Memorial to Congress by Citizens of Pensacola
[No date, 1842 c)
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned Memorialists, resident citizens of the City of Pensacola, Florida respectfully represent to your Honorable Body, that they deem it of the highest importance that no time should be lost in putting in the best possible state of defence that portion of our frontier, which borders on the Gulf of Mexico. On our whole line of frontier, no one portion centers a deeper interest than that which embraces the mouths of the Mississippi, Alabama, and Chatahoocha Rivers, and in the event of misunderstanding with a foreign maritime power, at no point would the enemy be so sure to rendezvous as at that, where he could at once shut up, or cut off a vast portion of our

trade, and at the same time dangerously threaten the security of our fellow citizens in the possession of their domestic property, guaranteed to them by the highest sanctions of the Constitution.
The unmolested trade by the rivers, alluded to, is not only of indispensable importance to the numerous States which border on them, but to the entire Country; for what State of the Union is not more or less insterested directly in the trade which passes through these natural channels? On every principal, then, of national interest and patriotism, this unmolested intercourse must be protected and secured.
Your Memorialist do not pretend to judge of the advantages of any one point over another on that frontier, as best calculated to effect this desirable object, but some one point, at least, should at once be rendered capable of not only making a defence, but also of furnishing a ready assistance and defence to other contiguous points,—some port where repairs and supplies to our own Navy could at any time be furnished without the absolute necessity, as at present, for any vessel to resort to a distant northern or Atlantic port for that object. The existence of such a rendezvous for our ships, and an easy and rapid channel of communication by Railroad with the interior, would be a matter of incalculable advantage.
A maritime force inimical to us might be disposed to attack an isolated point, or one having no facile communication from the interior, but would pause, and ponder well, before risking a blow, however successful in promise, under a conviction that the triumph would there be confined and limited, and without power to extend it further against an accumulating defence which such channels of communication would bring. Such a triumph would at best be but precarious and temporary, and therefore not likely to be attempted. And your Memorialist would here hazard an opinion, that no portion of our maritime border is less likely to be attacked by an enemy than that, where he knows that internal communication exist to promptly bring to the defence a patriotic population from the interior.
Nor would an enemy be able to hold a position in safety, or with impunity, contiguous to a point of rendezvous for our own Navy, thus provided with the means of defence and attack. Your Memorialists will not stop to inquire how far such a rendevous thus organized, and aided by Railroad communication, squares with a rigid construction of the constitutional powers of Congress—they know that such an indispensable necessity absolutely exists, and most respectfully urge on Congress, either a friendly aid to private enterprize ready to

undertake it, or by a national adoption of the work, carry it promptly to completion.
All which is respectfully submitted.
Henry Hyer R. A. Mitchell George Willis H. F. Ingraham W B Taylor S. W. Taylor J Morton Stanard Eben W Dorr Oliver A. Jenkins Cha" C. Lewis P A Duncan John Tobin Charles Winter Wm. MeVoy J Jerrison Jr Cha" C Keyser J. C. Allen Eden. Dorr.
O M Avery Wm A Bell William H. Jones Jacob Brasher Joseph Sierra Pierre Suchet E D Avery John Jerrison Thomas Stuckey Robt. Milligan F. de la Rua D. A. M. David James Gnzalez B J Parsons Blake Jernigan Joseph Gonzales J Brosnaham J. C.; Julian A. H. Runyan Mark Miller John Campbell Jas. R. Riley Rich" L. Campbell F. E. de la Rua John Finney John O. Smith Tho" J Lamdin Joseph H Stephens Frederick Laumastres James Woodbury Washington Soule Jos Quigles John de Alba M Quigles L F Phillips John M*Kinley T B. Jerrison.
F, M, Maura Henry Farmer Geo G. Pattison Jos S Levett Hanson Kelly William Ryan Pearsall Johnston Tho's J Gardiner Henry Reiker G B W Smith Francis Bobé
Charles Evans Benj" D Wright M. Crupper F. Y. Commyns Henry Ahrens A, W. Nicholson Walker Anderson Jn" Garnier Jackson Morton Zenon Suchet Fro Fouard Geo Perry

John McAllister Pedro Gonzalez Pedro Fassiola Francois Bonifay Franco Moreno Manuel Gonzalez Joseph Forsyth M. D. Hernandez J. A. Simpson W" Dougherty Felix Bonifay Wm. Grant
[Addressed] Hon: D Levy Washington, D.C. [Postmarked] Pensacola F. T. Feb 23 Free
[Endorsed] Florida—Frontier defences Memorials from Pensacola concerning importance of connecting Pensacola with the interior by means of Railroad. March 29, 1842 Ref" to the Committee on Naval Affairs Naval Affairs " Levy CHARLES B. PENROSE TO CHARLESS. SIBLEY
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 20]</source>
<place-time>OFF. SOL TREASURY. February 24, 1842.</place-time>
SIR, Governor Call has enclosed to this Office a certified Copy of the verdict rendered in the Case of the U. States vs Rich" K. Call, late Receiver, showing a balance in his favor of $7.923.72, which he states will vindicate his reputation from the charge of being a defaulter, to the Government, and will enable him to receive his salary as Governor of Florida, which has been with held from him since July 1837. He therefore requests that I will give the necessary instructions to have his accounts for salary audited and paid to his Attorney &"
This cannot be done until I receive your report of the trial which I will thank you to forward without delay, including in the report the different items of credit allowed to him by the Court.
(Signed) CH. B. PENROSE Solicitor To/ CH. S. SIBLEY Esq Dist. Atty. Florida, Tallahassee—
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets re Lands:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON. Feby 24” 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON” CHARLES B. PENROSE Solicitor of the Treasury SIR Having in compliance with your suggestion, through the Delegate of Florida, transmitted to me at Tallahassee in November last, attended the Supreme court here, to assist in the preparation, and argument, of the land cases, on appeal, from the Superior Court of

East Florida, performed that duty, I beg leave to submit my account for services rended & milage so that it may with other matters herein mentioned, be laid before the President—If the act of congress approved May 23–(1828)" is understood by me, the President only is impowed to decide on my account, and by his direction solely, such allowance, or pay, to the law Agents, & assistant counsel, & district Attorney as he may deem reasonable, can be made. If the President thinks proper, to refer this subject to you, or any other officer of Government, it will oblige me, should he not find leasure to examine the subject—It is desireable that the whole subject of the duties responsibilities, and expence of the several officers named, should be inquired into—and according to their several duties, should in future be the allowance to each.
By refference to the act of May 23" 1828. you will find that on the Law Agent is in fact, placed the whole responsibity of superintending the land cases in Florida, brought against the United States—
he is a traveling Agent, his duty is to procure the testimony, attend every where, to take evidence, to prepare & argue the cases. throughout the Territory and if required to attend the cases in the Supreme court.—No other but the district attorney. can take testimony—the assistant counsel under the law has no power to act except in arguing the cases—When the President fixed the compensation for the assistant counsel, Ric" K. Call was in fact doing all the duties—for Mr Brents,” the then law Agent, was seldom in Florida,-and by refference to the enclosed papers, it is apparent that Mr Call, was intitled to all the compensation he received—The Present Assistant stibagent counsel Mr Burritt does not (from the records of the land cases brought up to the Supreme Court) appear to have done any duty-
In the great case of Mirande vs The United States just decided, I do not see his name in the record—The duty in this, and the other cases was performed by the district Attorney Mr Douglass—yet the assistant counsel, not leaving his home, at all, has continued to receive annually $2,500, while the last Law Agent, (the late Judge Allen,")
was allowed only 1500 per annum & his travelling expences—when he in fact with the district attorney done the whole business The act of congress placed the assistant counsel and the district attorney on the same footing—
It seems to me that under existing circumstances, a revision of the allowances. heretofore made should be had, that the several officers should be paid in proportion to there services & expenses, necassarily incurred, in discharge of there duty—and as this is at all times in the

power of the President, I trust it will be examined into—Judging from the former action of the other presidents my account cannot be paid, until approved by the President, & as his more important duties.
may not permit him to attend to this matter—he may refer it for your report— -
The sum annually appropriated for the payment of Law Agent, district Attorney, & assistant counsel, in $5000—There are a number of land cases yet pending in Florida, against the United States, and no doubt now remains, that the owners of the grants made by the King of Spain, to the Duke of Alagon, Punon, Rostro, and Wargas, will soon be in litigation, These grants cover nearly the whole Peninsula of Florida, and hundreds of men of wealth, & influence, in the United States are interested in maintaining these grants—
The necessity of engageing men of integrity & ability to defend the interest of the United States against these enormous claims, is obvious—I deem it my duty as I know it is the best for the United States to recommend. William H. Brockenbrough, Esq of Florida as assistant counsel, being a Lawyer of high reputation, and on whos integrity, the government, can place the utmost reliance I have received no allowance or compensation whatever since I was appointed Law Agent—If the inclosed account for services, is allowed—my future compensation—may commence from this date, as the President may direct—with the understanding if I am requested to attend the Supreme Court—that a reasonable allowance may be granted for expences &c—It seems to me that as I must reside at St. Augustine the greater part of the year, where most of the land claims will be tried that office rent, stationary &c should be allowed me—and some reasonable amount may be added for this purpose—The inclosed extract of Letters from the Attorney Gen. Mr Taney, & others with sundry accounts. allowed by the then President obtained from the 1* Auditors office, is sent also for the Presidents examination "
Respectfully Your Obt Servt Wm P DUVAL
[Endorsed] Washington Feb. 24. 1842 W." P. Duvall Esq. Respecting his services as Assistant Counsel in the Florida land claims—See Report to Pres U. States March 10, 1842
[Enclosure: DS]
Account of William P. DuVal as Law Agent United States Dr To Wm P. Duval of Florida for his services in the following cases—decided by the Supreme Court at Washington in 1842

United States vs Pedro Miranda. Et Al on a claim for three hundred & sixty eight thousand six hundred and forty acres of land in East Florida, on Appeal from East Florida—The decree reversed and the court ordered that the Superior court at St. Augustine, to dismiss comp" Bill"—
Fee in the above case. $1,000
United States vs John McLeon et Al. claim for 16,000 granted for the establishment of a water saw mill decree of the inferior court affirmed 150
United States vs The heirs of Geo. J. F. Clark, deceased, & the Heirs of Geo. Atkinson Dc"Appeal from the Superior court of East Florida, on a claim for 15,000 acres for land decree affirmed 150
United States vs John Breward appeal from the Superior court of East Florida claim for 16.000 acres of land for building a saw mill—
Decree to affirm in part & reverse in part & remanded for a survey 150
United States vs John M. Hanson & others appeal from the Supreme Court of East Florida—claim for 16,000 acres of land for building a water saw mill—The decree affirmed as to the tittle & the case remanded for a survey 150
Mileage from Tallahassee to Washington & returning—at the rate of $6 for every twenty miles—the whole distance comeing & returning being [Blank] Miles *
Wm P. DUVAL
[Addressed] To the Hon.” Solicitor of the Treasury Washington
[Endorsed] Refer" to the Solicitor for his Report—J. Tyler March 7.
1842
</docbody>
<dochead>REPORT AND RESOLUTION, COMMITTEE ON MILITIA, LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[February 24, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>The committee on the Militia to whom was referred a resolution of this House, directing them to enquire into the expediencey of applying to Congress for an act authorizing the people of Florida to elect the Brigadier's General for this Territory. We have the same under consideration and ask leave to Report

That they consider that the desperate condition of the Militia of this Territory, and its perfect state of disorganization is mainly to be attributed to the manner in which those officers are now commissioned, being beyond the reach of any authority in this Territory, and responsible alone to the Government of the United States, they have no incentive to prompt them to the faithful discharge of their duties, and without efficient heads for the different brigades of this Territory, all laws that may be passed in reference to the Militia, will, as they have done, prove entirely nugatory.—
They have therefore instructed me to offer the following resolution.—
Resolved, That our Delegate in Congress be requested to use his best exertions to obtain an act of Congress authorizing the Militia composing the different Brigades in this Territory to elect by Ballot their respective Brigadier's General—
F. L. DANCY—Chairman Adopted 24" February 1842
(Att) H ARCHER Clerk Ho Rep
[Endorsed] Florida Legislature Report On the State of the Militia and Resolution for an act to authorizing the election of Brigadier Gen's May 31, 1842 Ref" to Comm” on the Territories Dec. 29, 1843.” Com. on the Territories * M Levy ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets from GLO to ST:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, March 1st 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, As connected with the report which I had the honor to make to you under date of the 22nd Ultimo" on the subject of the accounts and conduct of Robert Butler the Surveyor General at Tallahassee Florida, I hereby enclose the copy of a letter from him bearing date the 19th Ultimo" which has just reached this office, from which it will be seen that he declines correcting his accounts, according to the decision of the First Comptroller of the 1st Ultimo, a copy of which was sent to him with instructions from this office; intending, as he states in his letter, to submit the whole matter for your decision and direction.

I likewise enclose a copy of my instructions to Mr. Butler of the
4th Ultimo " a copy of the First Comptroller's letter therein referred to, will be found with the papers which accompanied my report above mentioned.”
I have the honor to remain very respectfully Your Obt Servant E. M. HUNTINGTON Commissioner TO THE HON. WALTER FORWARD Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] C. 381. March 3 Hartley
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS AND PLANTERS OF EAST FLORDIA79</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[March 1, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled.
The Memorial of the subscribers respectfully sheweth; That in the year 1835. and previously thereto, they had become Inhabitants and Planters in the Territory of Florida; that reposing Patriotic and entire confidence in the Government of the United States, in its obligations, as well as its ability and disposition to afford and extend to them and to their possessions, a sure protection from the Savage tribes inhabiting the interior of said Territory, they had invested in their agricultural undertakings therein, their whole property.
The history of this Territory and of the cruel and destructive Indian warfare which has prevailed within it for more than the last six years, need not be now recited for the information of Congress. It is but too well known, that East Florida has been overwhelmed in ruin, -ravaged o'er and o'er again, by the yet unconquered and unrelenting savage, and that your suffering Petitioners have thereby been reduced from competency, —nay in many cases even from wealth, –to their present unhappy and impoverished condition;—their Plantations being devastated, their machinery, their cattle, their dwelling houses, their

household furniture, their property of every description, all gone,—
being absolutely destroyed, or plundered and carried off by the enemy;—even their very clothing, save that upon them, when compelled suddenly to flee from the Rifle and scalping knife, in many instances has not been rescued from the common destruction!
Will not the Congress of the United States take these grievous matters into just consideration?—The war, and the desolation which has followed in its train, are in no wise chargeable upon your Petitioners, nor as they verily believe, upon any portion of the suffering people of East Florida. To far other distinct and palpable causes, these calamities may be readily and properly traced. And your Petitioners therefore do humbly, but earnestly pray, that in consideration of the matters above briefly stated, that Congress, the legitimate, -indeed the only source to which they can look for relief, in this their season of trial and prostration,-representing as they do, a generous people, and having in charge for the public good and the purposes of Justice, abundant means; will speedily provide by Law, for the remuneration of those who have heavily and long suffered, as your Petitioners have herein before set forth and shown.
For which purpose, your Petitioners in the most respectful manner would suggest, that a Bill embracing the following provisions, should be framed and passed. The first section, to provide for the organization of a Commission, consisting of not more than three members, who shall be allowed a Secretary, and who shall be authorised to receive the claims and ascertain the amount of losses sustained by the Inhabitants of Florida, from and by the hostile Indians, as well as by the operations of the Army,” during the present War; and to report the same to be acted upon by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General and the Solicitor of the Treasury as a final and ultimate Tribunal. The next section, to provide for the holding of the sessions of these Commissioners at such points or places, as may be most convenient for the reception of claims and the examination of witnesses, and as well otherwise, best facilitate the duties of the Commissioners.
The third section, to provide for the Issues of Scrip by the Treasury Department, as the means of meeting and liquidating these claims;
the scrip to draw an interest of six per cent per annum, from the date of the claim, or the period on which the property was destroyed.
By the fourth provision, the Public Lands in the Territory of

Florida, to be pledged as the basis of this stock, which should be made redeemable at the pleasure of the Government.
By a final provision, the scrip should be made receivable in payment for the Public Lands in the Floridas, when ever brought into market.
From the information which your Petitioners have after careful enquiry acquired, and from the most correct data they have been able to possess themselves of, they have no hesitation in averring the belief, that the aggregate amount of the losses, when ascertained will not exceed, Two millions five hundred thousand dollars, certainly not Three millions of dollars.
And your Petitioners relying on the magnanimity and justice of their Government, anxiously but confidently look to Congress, now in their great need, for its interposition in the adoption of some measure for relief from that ruin, which without its aid must continue to bear them down, and from which they cannot otherwise hope to be relieved.
S” Augustine EAST FLORIDA March 1* A.D. 1842
David R. Dunham G. Humphreys W H Simmons—
S Hill Williams D Dummett Eliza S Crews Louisa Fatio Henry N. Cruger W" de Peyster Theo: Flotard O. S. Reese Joseph Woodruff Benj" D Heriot Alex Forrester George Colt of New Smyrna Mosquito Co.
of Alachua County St John's River.
Halifax Mosquito Co.
of Tomoka Mosquito Charlotte Harbour New Switzerland St Johns of New Smyrna Mosquito Co do do of Allachua County of Spring Garden Mosquito County Volusia Mosquito County Halifax Mosqueto County Spring Garden Mosquito St Johns River
[Endorsed] Florida—Citizens of Citizens of Florida Petition for the Establishment of a board of three Commissioners to audit their claims for losses sustain by them in the Florida War both by the Indians & by our own Troops Com Judiciary March 29, 1842*
Ref" to the Com" on the Judiciary (J C Clark)

</docbody>
<dochead>PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:AC]</source>
<place-time>[March 4, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas the port of Tampa, so soon as the Indian War is closed, will, from its position and advantages, become an important port, and engross the chief part of the trade on the Western Side of the Peninsula of Florida, and in such event a separate Collection District should be established, and said port made a Port of Entry and Delivery:
Be it therefore Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives, that the Delegate in Congress be requested to procure the immediate passage of a law establishing a separate Collection District on the Peninsula of Florida, and the establishment of Tampa as a port of Entry and Delivery, and that a copy hereof be transmitted to the Delegate, and a copy to the Hon. the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.
Adopted by the House 14" Feb. 1842
HUGH ARCHER Chief Clerk Ho. Rep.
NW WALKER Speaker of House of Rep.
Adopted by the Senate 20" Feb. 1842
Att. J S ROBINSON Sec'y Senate WM H BROCKENBROUGH President of Senate.
Approved 4" March 1842
R. K. CALL Gov" of Florida Office of the Secretary TALLAHASSEE Florida I Thomas H. Duval, Secretary of the Territory of Florida, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the original enrolled bill on file in my office, passed by the Legislative Council of said Territory at the late session.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and Seal affixed the seal of said Territory this 12" day of March in the year of our Lord Eighteen Hundred & forty two.
THO. H. DUVAL Secretary of Florida
[Endorsed] Florida–Leg—Port of entry at Tampa-Resolution of Leg. Council of Flo: asking the establishment of a Port of Entry at Tampa-March 30 1842 * Ref" to the Committee on Commerce

January 4, 1844.” To Com. of Commerce January 23, 1844*—vs.
to lie & print Levy Labranch * 4 dis & to lie Levy GEORGE W. COLE TO ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON
<source>[NA:GLO, PLC Incoming Corres.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Land Office, East Florida ST. AUGUSTINE March 7" 1842</place-time>
SIR I herewith transmit a Supplemental Report of the investigation of the affairs of this Office, during the continuance of my predecessor in Office.” It will be proper to remark, that this Investigation would have been completed long ago, but for the detention, incident upon the want of the proper documents, which are in the hands of the purchasers—who, as yet, have not felt interest enough in the matter, to induce them, to exhibit the Receipts or even copies thereof, at this Office.
It will be observed, that very little additional information has been received here, since the Report which I had the honor to transmit to your Department, under date of the 15" day of April—-1841: " To which I beg leave now to refer.
It will be readily perceived, that in issuing Patents for Lands sold at this Office, great irregularity and confusion might arise, from the fact, that in many cases, different individuals, hold receipts for the same Land—And again many Sales, made at this Office, will in all probability, be set aside, for informality. And again, many tracts which have been sold in a regular and legal manner, will upon a resurvey, be covered by private Grants, which have been confirmed by the Courts, since the Township Plats, were made and filed in this Office.
It will also be perceived, that the evidence, in all the cases, herewith reported, is not conclusive, that errors have been committed in the entries herewith reported; but only shew that irregularities were common in the transaction of business in the Office.

If it shall be the pleasure of the Department to continue this investigation (which must be important) it will afford the undersigned great pleasure, to render any farther assistance in his power.
I have the honor to be most respectfully your very obedient Serv"
GEO. W. COLE, Receiver TO THE HON' E. M. HUNTINGTON Commissioner Gen' Land Office Washington City D.C.
[Endorsed] St Augustine Fla 7 Mar 1842 GW Cole Rec Transmits a supplemental report of the investigation of that office, during the incumbency of his predecessor. Very little information has been received since his report of 15 April 1841. Accounts for the delay in completing the investigation. States there is much confusion &
irregularity. R* March 19, 1842
</docbody>
<dochead>THE PRESIDENT TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., Pres.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>[Received 16" March 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE SOLICITOR OF THE TREASURY
Upon a full consideration of the claim of Gov. Duvall for professional service rendered the gov", I think that $1200 and mileage at the rate of
$6 for every 20 miles coming and returning, is an ample remuneration—
The permanent expences of the law agency are at present too great—
considering the number of cases now pending there can be no necessity for a principal and assistant agent let the assistant agency cease—and the expences will be classed as follows To the Law Agent $2000 per annum to commence on the 1. of March (Instant) To the District Attorney $1500 for another year, -
at the end of which, if there be no decided increase of duty his compensation should be reduced to $1000—which may be afterwards either still further reduced, or totally abolished—
JOHN TYLER
The Solicitor will take measures to carry out this instruction—J. T.
[Endorsed] Rec" 16" March 1842 March 16. 1842 The President U.
States Fixing Compensation of the Law Agent &c in Florida

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF VALENTINE Y. CONWAY AS SURVEYOR GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Surveyors General Perm. Comms.]</source>
<place-time>[March 17, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the integrity, diligence, and discretion of VALENTINE Y. CONWAY I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,”
do appoint him Surveyor of the public lands in the Territory of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law, and to have and to hold the said office, with all the rights and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said VALENTINE P. CONWAY for the term of four years from the 17" day of March, 1842, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the 17* day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty two and of the Independence of the United States of America, the sixty sixth."
JOHN TYLER
By the President:
DAN'WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON TO ROBERT BUTLER</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>GEN i LAND OFFICE 21 March 1842</place-time>
<docbody>ROB" BUTLER Esq late S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. The President of the United States by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, having appointed Valentine Y. Conway to succeed you in the Office of Surveyor of public lands in the Territory of Florida, by Commission dated the 17" inst, you are hereby re-

quested to deliver to him all the Maps, field notes, diagrams, books, letters and documents, articles and furniture of every description appertaining to the Office, for which duplicate receipts are to be taken, one of which you will be pleased to transmit to this Office.
The receipt should designate minutely all the items of the articles above enumerated which shall be handed over."
Very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
E. M. HUNTINGTON Commr.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO LOTT WARREN</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT March 24h 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON. LOTT WARREN, House of Representatives.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 21" instant * containing the substance of a communication from Mr. Angus McAuley respecting the delay of payment of certain companies of Florida militia, and the inadequacy of the regular force to the protection of the inhabitants, as evidenced by the massacre of the Tillis family.”

With respect to the payment of the militia, I enclose herewith a report from the Paymaster General;” and as regards the massacre referred to I have to observe that the circumstances under which that atrocity was committed, rebut the presumption of the insufficiency of the protection provided for the settlement where it occurred. There were two companies stationed in the vicinity of McClellan's settlement in which Mr. T. resided. He left his home without giving his house in charge to any one of his neighbors, and indeed without apprising them of his intended absence; so that when the fire of the Indians was heard they thought it was the report of his own rifle. No other house was attacked, for Mr. Tillis' alone was without protection.
The opinion of the settlers as to their security may be known from the fact of Mr. Tillis' failure to observe a precaution but seldom neglected in any country neighborhood, and the idea of danger must have been distant indeed when the report of fire arms excited no suspicion of the presence of an enemy.
No troops could have shown more diligence and activity than those stationed at the settlement. They promptly followed, overtook and captured some of the marauders, and at the latest advices were continuing the pursuit with prospects of further success.”
J. C. S.
e-
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. WARE TO THESECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:ALS]</source>
<place-time>COLLECTORS OFFICE Dist & Port of St Marks 30th March 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor of informing you, that before I came into this office, it was moved from Saint Marks to Port Leon, a distance of two miles, nearer the Bay—The reason of this removal was altogether on account of the change of the Commercial business from the former to the latter place, and for the convenience of Master's to enter, & clear their vessels, and it will likewise greatly aid the Collector in detecting encroachments on the Revanue.
On account of the change of office I find great inconvenience in getting my letters from St Marks—The Mails at that place are very irregular, and the office not attended to at all—I believe my letters constitute, at least, three fourths of the contents of the Mail Bag—I
hope therefore that the Department will henseforth direct all communications for this office to Port Leon–Florida—

I have the honor to be Yr Most obt Srv"
Wm H. WARE Collector TO THE HON' W FORWARD Sect of the Treasy
[Endorsed] St Marks March 30. 1842 W H Ware Coll reqg letters to be add" to Port Leon Ans' 25" Ap' " S-307—April 16th Rodman Letter GR
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO MILLARD FILLMORE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, Orig. Reports, TD, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON April 13th 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON” MILLARD FILLMORE Chairman of the Comm” of Ways House of Representatives SIR. The Hon.” Mr Levy delegate from Florida having stated to me, your committee desired to be informed as to the necessity of retaining in the general appropriation bill, the amount asked for the services of the Law Agent, & district Attorney, who have charge of the private land claims in Florida on the part of the United States, I have the honor the he her to submit the following statement In November last while at Tallahassee Florida—I was requested to attend the late Supreme court in the city, to argue in behalf of the united states certain land causes. then pending in that court—This has been done on other occasions and counsel from Florida attended and were paid for such service under the powers given to the President by the same law—In one or more instances where the suits were important. President Jackson during his administration. in certain land suits employed. Rich" K. Call, and the late Mr Wirt to assist the attorney General, and they were paid by his order. I have performed the same service, and one of the causes set up a claim for three hundred and sixty eight thousand six hundred and forty acres of land.
taking in contonment Brooke, the falls of the Hillsborough river, and the most important points on the shores of Tampa Bay in East Florida—For national defence. & for naval purposes the land then in controversy, is worth millions of dollars There were, six cases, in the Supreme Court. five more argued and decided. on, two were confirmed, two, reversed in part and remanded to the court below for further action & resurveys One case was continued by the court untill the next term. These cases were for sixteen thousand acres of land each.
There is now pending in the superior court of East Florida twelve, land causes—they are will be tried next October. Suits are about to be instituted by claimants against the United States on three

large grants, which cover a large portion of the Florida peninsula, involving several millions of acres—The value and importance of these lands to the United States, induced the President to appoint, me the law agent for the land claims in Florida—The duty of the Law agent is confined to not particular in Florida, he is to attend any court, where a suit is brought against the united states, with the Territory. He is to take the evidence every where throughout Florida, for the united states, and to superintend all the testimony which may be taken by the claimants, to collect all record evidence that will protect the interest of the united states and to argue the cases—The duty of the district attorney is to answer all petitions or bills, filed by the claimants, to draw up the pleadings, in defense, and from time to time, under the rules of the court, to take the necessary steps in the suits, se as will place them early on the trial dockett—The duties of the district attorney, require him to remain in his district and he does not attend elseware—The assistant counsel was not authorided by law to any thing else that argue the cases—His allowance was
$2500 per annum, but the President thought his services were unnecessary, & that agent, is discharged—sometimes there is no Law Agent—whenever the suits are of little consiquence, the services of the law Agent is dispensed with—The President under the law exercising such discression, as economy & the interest of the country may require. The allowance to the Law Agent is $2000 per annum, If he should be obliged to travel much over the Territory, in performing his duties—the expense will Hatteh reduce his compensation—and should he visit, Pensacola and Key West—and thence back to St Augustine—but little if any, of his allowance will be left. His expenses cannot be fixed as that must depend on the nature, and extent of the duties he may perform I am Respectfully Your obt ser"
Wm P. DUVAL
My duties as Law Agent commenced from the first of March 1842.
[Addressed] Hon" Millard Fillmore Chairman of the Comm" of Ways & Means House of Representatives VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
Surveyor Genl"Office TALLAHASSEE Ap' 19. '42
SIR I arrived at this place on Friday last—after a travel of nine days including three which I was forced to spend at Richmond, Petersburg & Macon, Georgia.

Having procured an introduction to the late Surveyor General thro’ Gen. Brown, I presented the Official letter with which I was charged by your Department.” He informed me that he would proceed with the Inventory directed, but that some days would probably be consumed in the labor of making the list & copies required.
To day, tuesday, I was summoned to the Surveyor Generals Office, to compare the Inventory with the articles enumerated. This task I have performed to the best of my ability & have accordingly signed the receipt.
At the close of our interview Col. Butler placed in my hands a letter which he said had reference to the Office hitherto used by him & about which I had declined to communicate with his clerk the day before. I promise to give it a careful perusal. On this subject he says “Considering my property as rented to the U.S. for the present year, from the first day of January last, at the sum of Four hundred dollars p annum, to be paid Quarterly, I shall present you at the termination of each Quarter with my account for payment
& in the event you shall determine upon some other location at the end of the present year, I have to request your advice thereof three months in advance as is customary in such cases that I may be enabled to obtain another tenant.”
I feel some hesitation in regard to the best mode of proceeding in reference to the selection of an Office. The Col's reasoning has some force but is surely not conclusive. If however there existed no difficulty between himself & the Department in the settlement of his accounts I should feel no hesitation, from a sense of Justice, in taking the office for the remainder of the year, altho’ I think the price too high. I shall be governed by your advice upon the premises, & shall keep it open until your opinion is obtained.
I can obtain another house & probably for less, if it be recommended.
I have the honor to be Very Respy Yr Obt Svt.
W. Y. CONWAY Surveyor Gen.
E. M. HUNTINGTON Esq Comm Gen L.O.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor 19 Apr 1842 W.Y. Conway S.G. Has entered upon discharge of his duties. Asks if he shall remain in Col. Butler's house, at the present rent for the remainder of the year.

Thinks the rent high. Answered May 3 1842 ” W.T.S. May 2" 42
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT BUTLER TO ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Surveyor Generals Office TALAHASSEE April 19* 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your official letter bearing date the 21" Ult” Superceeding me in the Office of Surveyor General of Florida politely handed me by my Successor, and being the only official intelligence received from you or other functionaries of the American Government touching this subject.
For the peculiar manner of this proscription a due estimate is held by me, as being proud in the virtuous confidence and faithful department of a common life spent in the service of my Country—
You will receive accompained, the receipt of my Successor for all the Articles specified in your letters which I hope will be deemed entirely satisfactory—Is also accompained my Salary account to include this day—that of my Clerk will be incorporated in the Account of the Surveyor General proper at the termination of the quarter, as he has been continued in Office by that Gentleman.
The inclosed copy of my letter to the Surveyor General” will explain the reason why I have not made any charge for Office rent until the 30" day of June next.
And finally—presuming that the Hon” Secretary of the Treasury had promptly decided on my account for Office rent and fuel agreeably to his decision made as Comptroller of the Treasury, I have to request that I may be early placed in receipt of the amount justly due me, and express the hope that I shall not again be required to revert to this Subject in my retirement.
The insertion of this in letter Book N° 2 closes my official acts in this Office *—
I have the honor to be, very respectfully Y." M* Ob"S"
ROBERT BUTLER late Surveyor General of Florida.
E.M. HUNTINGTON Esq Comm General L. Office

[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 19 Apr 1842 R. Butler S.G. Ack"
receipt of Commr's letter of 21 ult superceding him as Surv' Gen.
Encloses receipt of his successor for all the articles belonging to the office—also his salary afc to this date inclusive; & copy of his letter to his successor. Asks that he may be paid the am’t of his charge for office rent & fuel. Sent salary a/c to 1* Aud" July 9" 1842. W.T. S.
Ackg" May 2” 1842 * W. T. S M Steiger Rec" 29 Apr 1842 Letter.
April 19” 1842. accompained. Rec" of Sur Gen. Salary acc" of late S'
General with draft & copy of letter to Surv' Gen.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT April 26th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY, House of Representatives SIR, In answer to your letter of the 24" instant, received to day,”
I would say that, in my opinion, the occupation of the peninsula of Florida by a hardy and armed body of men, would be the most effectual means of preventing any hostile incursions by the Indians.
Their number is now so much reduced, that the trouble and expense of keeping a large military establishment there for the pursuit and capture of the few that remain, seems no longer expedient." A
force ten times the number of those now in the field, would not prevent occasional irruptions of the Indians, and if it can be prevented by any means, that above suggested, appears the most effectual.
And if to secure such settlements, it be necessary to offer a quarter section of land to each head of a family, I should think it judicious to make the offer, but with the express declaration that the title of the United States only would be granted, and that the Government would not be responsible for any failure of title.
It might also be expedient to authorise the issue of rations to the families of such settlers as were in need of them for a term not exceeding one year, and the loan of arms on security being given or

other provision made to secure their return, at some specified time."
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Recd., Apalachicola:LS]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT Office Ind. Affairs April 28th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, By treaty, concluded on 18 June 1833,”—with the Apalachicolas—the United States Agreed “to grant, and to convey in three years by patent to Mulatto King or Vacapasacy; and to Tustunuggy Hajo, head chiefs, of Ematlochees Town for the benefit of themselves, subchiefs, & warriors, a Section and a half of land to each, or contiguous quarter and fractional Sections, containing a like quantity of acres; to be laid off hereafter under the direction of the President of the United States, so as to embrace the said chiefs fields and improvements, after the lands shall have been surveyed and the boundaries to correspond with the public surveys, it being understood, that the aforesaid chiefs may, with the consent, and under the advisement of the Executive of the Territory of Florida, at any time previous to the expiration of the above three years, dispose of the said Sections of land and migrate to a country of their choice.”
To carry into effect that portion of the treaty requiring the lands for the Chiefs to be laid off under the direction of the President, instructions were given by the Commissioner of the Gen. Land Office, who has transmitted to this Office a copy of the report of the Surveyor General with a map indicating the tracts which have been selected as the reservations aforesaid. The following is the designation of the tracts, the selection of which is recommended for the Presidents confirmation by the Surveyor General.
Lots 1.2.3.4.5.6 & 7 in Section 23—containing 458.94 acres Section 24 1. 12 ”
E% Section 14 324. — ”|Town 3
Lots 3 & 4 in Section 13 94.34 "[Range 7
Lot 2 in Section 12 79. 80 ”
South Reservation 958. 20

Lots 3.4.5. in Section 12 152.24 acres W% NE% & E% N.W #4 Section 12 159. 60 ” (TOWn 3
E% Section 1 320. ” [Range 7
E% S.W3% of Section 1 80. * *
Lots 1.2.3. & 6. in Section 6 147.86 '' # 3
Section 7 79.63 '' JRange 6
North Reservation 939. 33
Neither reservation amounts to the quantity usually contained in a regular section and a half, but that is accounted for by the treaty requiring the boundaries of those reservations to correspond with the public surveys, the regular subdivision of which does not make the exact number of acres.
The Surveyor General reports that he could not obtain any data to make a division between the respective Chiefs improvements, but has marked on the map the proposed subdivision by a yellow shade—
That division causes the land to be distinguished as the North &
South reservations—For the South division claims have been preferred by deeds confirmed by the Executive of Florida—The approval of the President sanctioning the act of the Surveyor General, is now necessary to authorize the General Land Office to issue patents under the deeds—and to proclaim for sale the balance of the land.”
Very Respectfully Your Obd" Serv"
T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD.
HON. JOHN C. SPENCER, Secretary of War.
[Endorsed] Office Indian Affairs April 28*1842. Statement in relation to the tracts reserved under the treaty of 18* June 1833 for Mulatto King & Tustunuggy Hajo Chiefs of the Apalachicolas I 95
Rec April 30/42 Indian Office Rec" 10" May 1842 (see other side)
W 1792 Reserves Apalachicola War Department; Returns, with Map that accompanied it, Statement relative to tracts reserved under treaty of 18* June 1833 for Mulatto King & Tustunnuggy Hajo, Chiefs of the Apalachicolas. Diagram sent to Genl. Land office on
17 May 1842. Rec" 10 May 1842 File 
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY </dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Palatka FLORIDA 9th May 1842</place-time>
<docbody>A. P. UPSHER. Secretary of the Navy:
SIR. I have the honor to inform you that I arrived at this place to day & have entered upon my duties.

I shall proceed to-morrow up the St. Johns to the settlements; one of Majr: Taylors', opposite Fort Mellon, and another of Col. Stewarts, on Lake Jessup; & I have to request the Department to inform me under what authority those settlements have been located on the public Lands; as far as I can understand they have located themselves on some of the most valuable live oak lands upon the river.
In a few days I shall examine these settlements in person, & report to the Depmt. every fact I can ascertain in regard to them.
All communications from the Depmt. will reach me at St. Augustine where I shall be, within ten days.
So soon as I shall have finished examining the coast on the Gulf, I
shall proceed to the settlements on the oposite side.
Very respfy, I remain Sir, Yr Obdt. Svt.
H. L. THISTLE
Agent for the preservation of timber on public Lands in E. Florida P. S. I have to request that the Depmt will designate the limits
& boundaries in which I am to act in my station as agent &c H. L.
THISTLE
Since writing the above I have ascertained that my services are required in the neighborhood of Jacksonville, I shall start for that place on Thursday if there is no conveyance sooner, I have had an interview with Majr Taylor, (the head man of one of the settlements before alluded to, & the former agent,) he informs me that he has taken possession of some of the most valuable live oak Lands in E. Florida. & intends cutting and selling the timber; he has the assurance to say “that as he has squatted on the Land, his claim is before that of the Government.”—There is no doubt but that I
shall have much trouble with the squatters, as they have principally settled, & will continue to do so, on the best Live-oak & timber Lands in Florida I find it very important that I should have a schooner of a light draught of water & boats.
If practicable the Depmt could turn ove such a one as I might consider best calculated for my purposes, from one of those under the command of Lieut M*Laughlin. I shall be under the necessity hiring a craft of some kind if I can find one, which at present appears very doubtful."
Very respfy H. L. THISTLE Agt. &c May 10th. 1842–
[Endorsed] Thistle 9 May. 1842 Copy this to be sent to M' Graham of the Senate Copy made & sent May 19 T 151 May 18 Homans

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE COMMANDING GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 2411]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT May 10" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>Memorandum for Commanding General, The communication of Colonel Worth of the 14" February last 12
and the suggestions of the Major General commanding the Army contained in his letter of the 27" ultimo,” in relation to the state of affairs in Florida, and the continuance of hostilities there, have been maturely considered, and I have now to communicate to the Major General commanding the Army, the views of the President upon the subject.
The very reduced number of the hostile Indians now in Florida, believed not to exceed two hundred and forty, including probably eighty warriors, would seem to indicate that all has been accomplished which can be effected by the employment of a large military force in offensive operations. Unless such operations are to be continued until the last Indian in the Peninsula shall be destroyed or captured, there must be some period when they should cease. That period, it is believed, has now arrived, and the protection of the inhabitants must be secured by other means, which it is believed can be effectually employed for that purpose.
The season is approaching which forbids the active and energetic movements which have distinguished the Army in Florida particularly during the last year, and the course of measures intended to be pursued must now be determined.
The communications of the Governor of Florida, of many of its intelligent citizens and of various distinguished officers of the Army, corroborate the views expressed by Colonel Worth of the propriety of terminating the present system of hostilities with the few Indians remaining in that Territory.
Anxious to curtail the extraordinary expenses incident to the warfare and sincerely desirous of promoting peace, the President directs that Colonel Worth be authorised, as soon as he shall deem it expedient, to declare that hostilities against the Indians in Florida have ceased, and that they will not be renewed unless provoked by new aggressions on their part. And they will accordingly cease until their renewal be authorised by the proper authority. But this is not to be understood as forbidding any acts of self defence either by the troops or by citizens, against any attempts of Indians to molest them.

Such a reduction of the Military force in Florida as may be made consistently with the protection of the inhabitants will therefore, immediately be made, and the troops ordered out of the Territory, will be stationed as the exigency of the public service may require.
But it is deemed advisable that a force, equal to at least two regiments, be retained to form a cordon or line of protection for the frontier settlements. The action of Congress will be invited to aid in the defence of the Territory, by the settlement of our citizens there, and offering to them inducements for such settlements, by gratuities of land, by allowing them rations for subsistence and by the loan of arms.
Until the decision of Congress is had on the subject, it is desirable that the settlements to be made, should be within such line of protection as shall be established by Colonel Worth who will take the necessary measures to effect this arrangement.
He will also use the means he possesses of communicating with the Indians yet remaining, and inducing them to consult their true interest by joining their brethren at the West.
Shipments of forage and subsistence to Florida will be suspended until expressly called for by the Officer in Command there.
The Quarter Master General will instruct the senior officer of his Department in Florida as to the manner of disposing of the public property that may not be required for use under the arrangements now directed, such as mules, horses, wagons &c subject to the orders of the Officer commanding the Army in Florida.
Colonel Worth will be informed that the Naval force on the coast has been directed by the Secretary of the Navy, to withdraw, whenever the Commanding Officer in Florida shall declare the cessation of hostilities, and shall deem their services no longer necessary.
The Major General commanding the Army will please communicate these directions to Colonel Worth, and give such further and other orders as may be necessary or proper to carry into effect the views of the President.”
J. C. S.
14 Post, p. 477. See also message to Congress by the President, May 10, 1842 (printed in Richardson, Messages, v, 2007–2008, and in Sprague, Fla. War, pp. 475-477), in which he endorsed Worth's program for ending the war. As has been noted heretofore, the latter volume is indispensable to students of the Seminole War. Although poorly arranged, contains many typographical errors, and is unindexed, it remains the most substantial and detailed account of the war.
See likewise H. Doc. 262, 27 Cong., 2 sess., which embodies a substantial portion of the relevant military correspondence for the period Jan.-June 1842, only a small part of which has been published elsewhere. The group of papers published was sent to Congress by the Secretary of War, July 5, 1842, pursuant to a resolution of Congress, May 26, 1842 (House Journal, 26 Cong., 2 sess., p. 863).

</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR CALL TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 10" May 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor herewith to enclose a copy of the General presentment of the Grand Jury for the County of Leon. I can add nothing to the impressive, and forceable discription given in this document of the embarrassment, and pecuniary distress of the people of Middle Florida. And can only unite with the Grand Jury in recommending the adoption of the only measure calculated to procure the necessary relief. If the executions now in the hands of the Marshal are enforced, a thousand defendants must be utterly ruined, while scarcely one Plaintiff will recieve the tithe of his debt.
If authorized by Congress, an election of members, might be held in October, and the Legislative Council might be assembled on the
1* Monday in November. This would enable the Legislature to interpose before the return of the executions to the November term of the Superior Court, and the prospect of such an interposition, would in the mean time, in all probability, have the deserved effect of suspending sales under execution and the consequent sacrifice of property Very Respectfully Your Obt St R K CALL
HONBLE DAVID LEVY
[Endorsed] Florida Grand Jury presentment—Letter of Gov' &
presentments of Leon Grand Jury—June 23 1842*. Referred to the Committee on the Territories—Com on Territories Levy–June
22 Territories [Enclosure:Pr."]
General Presentments of the Grand Jury of Leon County April Term, 1842.
The Grand Jury of Leon county in bringing their short but laborious session to a close, have to remark with pain upon the present calamitous condition of the country. Excessive speculation, and the inordinate issues of local Banks, have here, as elsewhere, been followed by wide-spread ruin. The extent and degree of distress is indeed, when taken in connection with the failure of several successive crops, and the great depreciation in the value of cotton, almost without a parallel. There is no money in the country. Fifteen hundred executions are said to have issued from our Courts within

the last five months, and it is a well known fact that there is not in the country specie enough to pay on these the legal fees of the officers of the Court.—What, then, must be the sacrifice of property!
Sales have already occurred in which, in ordinary times, the property sold would have proved more than sufficient to cover judgment and costs—and what has been the result?—The plaintiff in one of these cases, by way of illustration, received about one-thirtieth of his original claim, one-tenth of the entire amount of the sale;
and the other nine-tenths were required to defray the costs of suit and collection. But dreadful as this result appears, it is but the feeble commencement of the utter destruction that is speedily to follow. And is such a condition of affairs to be tolerated?—Are the people to sit tamely by, and behold one by one of their number stripped of their property—of their only means of subsistence?
and for what? Their debts are not paid—their property is gone, and neither plaintiff nor defendant benefited by the sacrifice. Is there then no remedy? The conciliating policy, the recommendatory measures of public meetings—partly from the inability of those entrusted with collections from abroad to grant the required indulgence, and partly from the rapacity of others—must entirely fail. The arm of the Legislature has, so far, been extended in vain.
The present stay law is of small benefit, except to that class who did not greatly need its assistance. What, then, can be done? The resort to force is ever to be deprecated—but the Grand Jury believe that a more vigorous exertion of the Legislative arm is loudly called for; and that unless active measures are taken to invoke its aid, a state os things may and must ensue which every law-abiding citizen would deeply deplore. It is far better that the representatives of the people should interfere, and cover with the Legislative sanction a restraint alike wholesome and necessary to creditor and debtor, than that an open resort to violence should be allowed to ensue.
Deeply impressed with the reality and importance of this conviction, and anxious to avert the scenes of bloodshed and ruin which threaten to overwhelm this community, the Grand Jury of Leon county earnestly recommend to their fellow citizens, and to the people of Florida generally, a memorial and petition to his Excellency the Governor of this Territory, and through him to their Delegate in Congress, setting forth in strong and respectful language the evils complained of, and urging upon them the importance and necessity of the immediate passage by Congress of an act authorizing the Governor of this Territory to convene, as soon as practicable, the Territorial Legislature, to take into consideration such measures for the relief of this people as it might be expedient to adopt in the present crisis: and the Grand Jury do hereby for themselves, and in

behalf of their fellow citizens, respectfully and solemnly solicit the co-operation of the Governor of this Territory, and of their Delegate in Congress, in the procurement of said act.
The Grand Jury present as an evil growing out of Territorial dependence, the melancholy system of proscription that has prevailed on the part of the General Government in their relations with this Territory during the last four years, and as evinced in the repeated and unjust removal from office of Territorial officers distinguished alike for probity and ability. If the faithful discharge of the duties of an office is to be no longer a guarantee for its continuance, it is high time that the appointment should revert to the people of the Territory:
and the Grand Jury do therefore seriously and solemnly recommend to their fellow citizens the adoption of measures, as soon as constitutionally practicable, for the organization of a State Government.
In connection with the present distress of the country, and as greatly aggravated by it, the Grand Jury consider it their duty to present the enormous multiplication of legal process in the prosecution of suits, as an intolerable grievance, and one that calls loudly for legislative amendment. As an evil of the same character, and requiring the same redress, the Grand Jury regard the practice of marshals and sheriffs, in sales under execution. The property sold is so infinitely divided by being distributed for sale on different days of the week and month, that no concourse and competition of bidders can ever be expected, and consequently the sacrifices must be great. The Grand Jury respectfully recommend to the Marshal, as an act of justice to all parties, to set apart some one day and period of the month, on which all sales of property shall hereafter be made; and that this practice be observed until the Legislature can act on the subject.
The Grand Jury deem it, also, their duty to call to the attention of the Honorable Judge of the Superior Court, the entire insufficiency of the security on both of the present Marshal's bonds, as a matter deserving immediate and special notice. Nor does the inadequacy of these bonds apply only to the sureties.—The amount fixed by law, the first to the U. S., being a bond for $20,000, and the second to the Territory for $10,000, is utterly insufficient. A bond for 50,000, well secured, would scarcely afford a sufficient guarantee for the safety of the immense sums which, in the present condition of affairs, must in the process of collection, pass through this officers hands. The Grand Jury consider this an evil of the first magnitude, jeopardizing alike the rights of plaintiff and defendant; and when it is recollected that the Marshal of the adjoining district lately availed himself of the circumstance to withdraw from the United States with a large amount of the public money, too much importance cannot be attached to it.
The Grand Jury consider it a solemn duty to direct the attention of the proper authorities to the subject, and through our Honorable

Judge and our Delegate in Congress, to request a prompt redress of the grievance.
The Grand Jury also present, as a serious injury to the country, the delay of the General Government in the payment of its debts to the citizens of this Territory; and they respectfully request their Delegate in Congress to press upon that body the speedy liquidation of these claims; and they would further urge upon his attention the fact, that it will greatly tend to relieve the pressure and distress occasioned here by the almost total absence of a circulating medium, if these payments be made in the notes of specie paying Banks, specie or Treasury notes, instead of checks upon remote Banks.
Under the head of County business—
The Grand Jury present as a matter worthy of censure and prosecution, the long-standing negligence and inattention of the Board Commissioners of this County, and they advise that, unless a material alteration takes place under the recently appointed Commissioners, that proceedings shall be instituted against them, by the District Attorney, at the Fall Term of this Court. The Grand Jury have, in the course of their duty, inspected the County Jail, and report with much satisfaction, and as highly creditable to the Sheriff and Jailer, its comfortable and cleanly condition. They recommend to the County Court the removal of the sheet iron lining, as a perfect nuisance, occasioning ill-health, and decay of the inner timbers; and they strenuously advise also the speedy erection of a proper enclosure as a precaution of safety and cleanliness.
In conclusion, the Grand Jury of Leon County, tender in behalf of themselves and the community, to the Honorable Judge of the Superior Court, their thanks for his able and eloquent charge, and for his energetic enforcement of the laws. Their thanks are also due to the District Attorney and Marshal and other officers of the Court, for their uniform courtesy and attention. The Grand Jury request of the Court that this their General Presentment, may be published in the several papers of Tallahassee.
Francis Eppes, Foreman. Henry Williams, Joseph W. Lea, R. B. Kerr, J. F. C. Harley, J. S. Russell, John P. Billingsby, B. F. Whitner, John Miller, J. W. Bannerman, J. C. Montford, Charles Alligood, J. G. Padrick, Jacob Stroman, H. B. Bradford, John S. Shepard, Dan'l T. Lingo, Jabez B. Bull, J. Atkinson, Tom Peter Chaires.

Published by order of the Court.
</docbody>
<dochead>R. T. BIRCHETT, Clerk THE COMMANDING GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, HQA Lets. Sent, Bk. 4,17]</source>
<place-time>Head Quarters of the Army, WASHINGTON, May 11, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>COLO. W. J. WORTH Commanding Army of Florida Sir; I enclose herewith for your government in the command of the Florida army, a copy of instructions which I have received,”
on the subject, thro’ the Department of War.
The instructions are so much in detail that but little remains to be added.
The manner of declaring the cessation of hostilities to the Indians, the troops & the inhabitants, to take effect on a day to be fixed, is left to your discretion.
An early report from you, after making up a definitive judgment as to the amount of force (not less than the Secretary has designated—)
deemed necessary for the defensive purpose indicated—as well as the cordon to be occupied by such force—is requested.
It is not expected that the cordon should be a regular line, either curved or straight. It may be, in parts, zig-zag, with certain isolated or advanced posts—as Fort Mellon," Tampa Bay &c.—so as the better to cover or protect the inhabitants, & to secure ultimately, by persuasion or negociations, all the remaining Indians, for emigration.
General Orders, No. 26, of yesterday, directs the embarkation of the 2* Infantry for New York, & leaves to your discretion the time for sending eight companies of the 7" Infantry to relieve detachments of the 3" Artillery, therein designated. It is not deemed probable that you will soon give orders to that effect.
We have just received unofficial intelligence that you have realized, in great part, the happy results which you had anticipated, in your last official report, from the late spirited affair with Halleck Tustenuggee & other energetic operations.
Over & above the two companies of the 7" Infantry and one
[two]” company of the 3* Artillery, to be stationed within the field
[St: Augustine]” of recent operations against the Florida Indians—

What force will be needed, after the cessation of hostilities with those Indians, in order to carry out the views of the War Department?
The five troops of the 2" Dragoons: Can they be dispensed with?—
or other, & what part of your remaining forces?
If you are confident (after giving reasonable weight to the opinions of Floridians) that the Dragoons may be spared, you will, without waiting for further instructions, designate two troops for the post at Baton Rouge, under the Lieutenant Colonel of the Regiment, &
the remaining three for Fort Jesup, & put the five in motion for those respective stations—taking care to advise Brigadier General Taylor, at Fort Smith, of the approach of the three troops to his department, as also of the route given them, so that he may, on the route, change their destination if it should be deemed necessary either there or here.
Should you, in your judgment, or in deference to the opinions of the inhabitants of Florida, deem it necessary to retain a part of the Dragoons, say three troops, & not the whole, you will, in either case, send off the other two troops to Baton Rouge, with, or without the Lieutenant Colonel, as you may deem his presence most useful there, or in Florida.”
I remain Sir, With high respect, Your Most Obt. Servi.
(Signed) WINFIELD SCOTT.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT May 12” 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>COLONEL W. J. WORTH, Commanding the Army in Florida.
SIR, The present condition of affairs in Florida, renders it proper to vary the instructions heretofore given under different circumstances, in relation to slaves in possession of the Indians who may surrender.
Compacts and stipulations made with them, must be adhered to.
It is equally the dictate of honesty and of policy to convince them of the good faith of the Government, and thus deprive them of any pretext for treachery on their part. This Department therefore does not feel at liberty to authorise any departure from engagements heretofore made with the Indians in Florida, on the subject of any property in their possession, whatever may be its character.
But the necessity which dictated former instructions having ceased, no assurances are hereafter to be given them that they may retain any slaves or other property, but such as belongs to them. Should circumstances, however, render it absolutely necessary for them to carry

away to the West any slaves or other property, to which their strict legal right may be doubtful, it will be highly desirable, in all such cases to make an arrangement with those citizens who may have adverse claims, to obtain their assent to such removal. Any expenses that may attend such arrangements, will be chargeable to the funds appropriated for removing those Indians and for suppressing hostilities in Florida.
The instructions heretofore given you will be your guide as to the manner of ascertaining the proper persons with whom to make the arrangements and the amount of expense which ought to be incurred.”
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Lets. Sent, Bk. 32]</source>
<place-time>O.I.A. 17. May 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON D. LEVY, House of Rep" U.S.
Sir, Referring you to my letter of 2" March last,” I have the honor now to inform you that the President of the United States has approved the selection of the Surveyor General of certain tracts bordering on the Appalachicola river—as reservations ceded to the U.S. by the treaty concluded on 18"June 1833*—with the Appalachicola Indians—
and that the Commissioner of the General Land Office has been informed thereof.
The tracts embraced within the limits of the “South Reservations”
are regarded as those claimed by M Jesse Cox and D. G. Roney—
under deeds from the Indians.
T. H. C.
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>No 2. JACKSONVILLE May 22° 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>A. P. UPSHER. Secretary of the Navy.
SIR. I have just returned from St. John's Bluff about 25 miles below this place, where I went for the purpose of examining that section of the Country, where the timber cutters have been operating during the last winter, & this spring.
I find that great quantities of Live-Oak & saw logs have been cut from the bar up to this place upon each side of the river, but mostly up the various creeks for the distance of fifteen to twenty miles.

There appears to be so many claimants for all good timber lands, predicated on Spanish Grants, (Some locations I am informed being covered with three or four diferent grants,) that it is impossible for me to designate public from private lands until I procure from the Land Office at St. Augustine, the locations of Lands sold there; And from the keeper of the Archives at that place the original boundries and locations of these old Spanish grants, confirmed by Government.
& I shall immediately proceed there for that purpose.
In some cases it will be necessary for me to resort to the assistance of a Surveyor, as it is my intention to prosecute some of the most wealthy individuals in this community for innovations upon the public Timber, when I am confirmed in my suspicions of their trespassing upon the public Lands: I shall take no steps of this kind until I have arrived to certainty, as I consider it unnecessary to run the Govmt.
into useless expense.”
I have been informed by Messrs. Palmer & Ferris, (Govmt. contractors) that it is their intention to cut timber during the next season on Lakes George, Munroe, & Jessup, or in their vicinity: Major Taylor & other setlers have offered the timber to them for sale.
I must ask to be advised in regard to the course I am to pursue towards these settlers, they have located themselves there by the invitation of Col. Worth & have received arms and rations from the Govmt. My object for asking separate instructions in this case is, that I do not wish to take any steps which might interfere with Col.
Worths' operations to close the present Indian War.
There are also three settlements of considerable note on the Gulf side, the Homassassa, containing about 40 inhabitants, the Chocohatee, containing about 300, and the Anuttelega. Also several other small settlements, all of which I shall visit so soon as I receive advice from the Depmt.
The face of the Country on the Gulf side I am well acquainted with, it is covered with very large & valuable Live Oak timber & some large
& thrifty white oak, well calculated for ship planking as it is as tough as walebone, this is the description of Lands which have been located by these settlers.
As nigh as I can ascertain, Majr. Taylor has induced them to believe that they are entitled to the timber, and that Govmt. has no authority over it.
I can not too strongly recommend a general survey of this country, as it would be very beneficial to Govmt. & would tend in a great measure to drive the Indians from the Country, and enable the Depmt.
to reserve all the valuable timber Lands.

My views upon this subject are confirmed by the opinion of Mr Douglass, the District Attorney.—This survey I am confident, might be accomplished with safety by employing a force of 150 or 200 men.
Doubtless the Depmt will concur with me at least in the opinion that the unsurveyed portion of this country should be immediately surveyed, not only for the purpose of reserving valuable timber Lands, but in order to designate public from private property.
In former surveys, either from the negligence of the surveyors, (as they surveyed by the mile) or that of property holders in not properly filing their their claims, public & private Lands were run out together without any mark to designate them apart, —This accounts for the various litigations which are now pending in regard to Lands & timber this proposed survey would save to the Government more than five fold the cost of the same.
I have endeavoured in some cases to find the original corners of sections, but as the land marks have been designated by small stakes, or in some cases on saplings, & pine trees, which have been destroyed by fire, or decayed, my search has been unavailing; and I have been informed by Mr. Douglass, & other gentlemen, in whom I can place undoubted confidence, that they have searched for corners of Townships & sections & could not find them from the before mentioned circumstances.
I would recommend in future that these marks be designated by pitch-pine, cedar or cabbage-tree posts, not less than 8 inches or a foot square, & formed into a mound with sand or other earth.—By this method they never could burn, & would always be designated—
We have undoubted testimony that these mounds will neverwashaway, from the circumstance that traces of cultivation still remain in fields which have not been improved for the space of a century—
Should the Depmt. deem it practicable to furnish me with, or direct me where, I could procure a chain & compass it would be useful to me in designating private from public property, which I could do within myself in many cases As I intend soon to operate in the interior of the Country, I would like to be advised where I can procure Arms, Ammunition & tents.
When at Palatka I could procure neither of these articles, not even a pound of Gun-powder.—Col. Worth was not at the post, & I have not had an interview with him since I have been in Florida—
I omitted to mention in my communication of the 9th. that I was severely injured in the back while on board of the Steam-boat, You will perceive however I have not been idle on account of it, I am now now pretty much recovered.
Instead of making my head Quarters at St Augustine, I have located them at Jacksonville, as the river St. Johns is the key of East

Florida, and the interest of the Government could be better subserved by my being at this place. You will be pleased to acknowledge this as soon as practicable” –
Very respectfully I remain, Sir, Yr: Obdt. servant.
H. L. THISTLE
Agt for preservation of timber in E. Florida A. P. UPSHER, Secretary of the Navy P. S. You will perceive that the Indian war still progresses, It is unnecessary for me to enter into detail in regard to the late Indian Murders, as I suppose you will have received information in regard to them before the receipt of this—H. L. T.
[Endorsed] Thistle 22 May 1842 T172 June 2 Homans ROBERT BUTLER TO ELISHA M. HUNTINGTON
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Lake Jackson near TALLAHASSEE May 23" 1842</place-time>
SIR, On the 19" ulto I advised you by letter * and accompanying papers of my retirement from Office to the bosom of my family after surrendering in good order all my responsibilities into the hands of my successor as p" his receipt then accompained—I have been placed in possession of your letter of similar date advising me of the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on the subject of my account for Office rent and fuel which I had made out and subsequently proved as conforming with the decision of the Secretary when Comptroller of the Treasury”—You request me to conform therewith by transmitting a new set of accounts, as on failure within a given period to do so, that you will adjust my accounts without making any allowance
(for that which has been allowed to others) that suit may be instituted against me to recover what may appear to be due the United States-
Having regularly transmitted my accounts, surrendered the Office with its documents, closed my functions as Sur General and retired, I had fondly hoped that my domestic enjoyments would have been respected—As you are however a sworn officer to perform your duty

faithfully, and if you deem it a part of your duty to pursue the course intimated (I had almost said threatened) I have only to bow in submission and prepare for my defence as becomes a Freeman jealous of his rights—I have to regret that the Hon” Secretary has not afforded me the grounds for his adverse decision, when the provisions required by his former one were clearly filled by me. In the event you shall finally determine on the course stated, I will thank you for copies of your two letters, the first to the Acting 1* Comptroller of the Treasury upon which his opinion was founded as expressed in his letter to you of the 1* of Feb" last.”—Second your communication to the Secretary of the Treasury under date 1" of March last,” as acknowledged by him on the 16" Ult” and to advise me of such determination at your early convenience that I may be prepared on the institution of the suit, to sue out interrogatories for you and the Chief Clerk with the 1* Comptroller of the Treasury to respond to and otherwise to obtain the necessary papers touching this claim together with another which will be advanced (under advice of Consel) for a considerable Sum against the United States, which the institution of a Suit will enable me to lay before a jury of my country for their decision—It may also be necessary, for me to visit Washington City before the trial. I would respectfully request that a warrant be issued in favor of M*A.A. Nunes Draftsman for his Salary for the 1* Quarter of the present year which remains unpaid. As my constitution has been much broken in the Service of my Country and my health at present impaired by the injustice heaped upon me, I feel solicitous that this business may have a speedy termination, as it would be a painful reflection to me, if I
should be called off, to leave a large and helpless family encumbered with a Suit against me infering that I was a Defaulter to my Country when the reversed picture is the true one. Leaving this subject for your final determination I revert to another.
The President has thought proper through you to supercede me as Surveyor General and (as I am advised) refuses to give any reason for the act—As he certainly would not violate his Manifesto published to the Nation, nor yet dismiss me without cause, I am therefore bound to believe that representations have been made to him secretly of a magnitude sufficient to induce him to dishonor me in the sight of the world, and as he refuses all information on the subject, I have as the only alternative left me to say through you to the President as becoming a faithful Officer and Gentleman that such information

(if given him) is false and malicious come from what source it may.
The President exercises the right of expounding the Constitution for his official action and has placed himself in the attitude that the
“King can do no wrong”, by refusing to give any reasons for the doing of what he considers a “Constitutional prerogotive”: as a free Citizen I have equal rights under that instrument, and construe his powers as extending only to the dismissal of unfaithful officers during the period for which they were appointed, inasmuch as Offices were created for the benefit of the people and when faithfully filled, the grand object of their creation is attained.—Let the people judge—
If I had been unfaithful, it was due to the Nation to have said so, and not implied it. If otherwise, I can view his proceedure against me, in no other light, than the exercise of a high handed power, governed by no rule of action. When the President vetoed the Bank bill I gave him in a short letter my grateful acknowledgement but I
uttered no flattery, for I would not flatter Neptune for his Trident.
As the opinions of your predecessors and the records of my Country proclaim in language that cannot be mistaken that I have heretofore been considered worthy: it becomes me to say that I have not lived to see my head whitened by the frosts of fifty five winters, that I
have not bared my bosom to the “pelting of the pittiless storm,” to cold, heat, wet and dry and often perilled my life in defence of these liberties gained by my forefathers and their compatriots in arms, to become a by word of the present day—If the association of my name in the successful defence and military operations at the second siege of Camp Meigs and the battle of the Thames in 1813, at Pensacola and New Orleans in 1814 & 15, in the Seminole War of 1818. or as Commissioner in 1821 for the reception (at S" Augustine) of East Florida from the Spanish authorities, as if to have been brevetted backwards through ignorance for “Gallant conduct and general good behaviour” for my services at New Orleans. If to have been reduced from the grade of Colo. of the 4" Infantry to that of Lieu"
Colo. of another regiment by an order of the War Department (through favoriteism) and resisted it by resignation, If to have been faithful in my accountabilities as a Military Officer and as Surveyor General of Florida, If to have pertinaciously guarded the interests of my Country against frauds and speculation, If to have satisfactorily refuted every attempt to impugn my official conduct heretofore as the records of the General Land Office plainly evince, If to have been ever at my post to perform the duties of my Official Station
(Save when the hand of God lay heavy on me), If not being a Defaulter to my Government but she in default to me, If all or any of these deserve the odium of dismissal from Office; then am I proud to wear the coat of an American Citizen, and whilst I mourn over the

cloud of adversity which Shadows our prosperity as a Nation, I derive consolation from the fact that light is peering through the darkness and that 'eer long the Sun of Republican freedom will again Shine with Constitutional lustre—Please acknowledge the receipt of this letter addressed to “Colo Robert Butler, Lake Jackson near Tallahasse Flo.” advising you that it has been delayed a few days owing to the state of my health, which is now better.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully; Yr M" Ob"S"
ROBERT BUTLER late Surf Gen" Ty F1°
E M. HUNTINGTON Esq Comm Gen L. Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 23 May 1842 R Butler Late S. G
Ack" receipt of letter advising him of the decision of the Secy adverse to his claim for office rent & fuel, & requesting him to send in a new set of a/cs, or that suit will be instituted. Will await the event of a trial, & wishes copies of certain letters preparatory thereto. Complains of his being dismissed from office. Ackg" July 9" 1842.”
Sent extract with Salary a/c to 1st Aud" same day. W.T. S. Rec"
6" June 1842 M Steiger PETITION TO DELEGATE LEVY BY CITIZENS OF WALTON
</docbody>
<dochead>COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[June 4, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>Petition We the undersigned Citizens of Walton County West Florida, resident on Yellow River, do Humbly and Respectfully Petition the Hon David Levy, Delegate in Congress from Florida, To cause to be appropriated for the improvement of Navigtion in Yellow River the Sum of Fifteen Thousand dollars. As this River has never been yet Cleared of its obstructions, which are Rafts, Logs &c whilst other rivers not more important to the farmer have been appropriated for, and now enjoy the benefits of easy Navigation, which we are denied. The Natural Stream of Yellow River is a deep good River susceptible of Steam & Keel Boat Navigation at least 140 miles from its mouth, passing through a rich fertile country, well timbered with Live Oak, and all other kinds peculiar to the Climate of the largest size. Lands on the River remain uncleared and unsettled, only because they are so far from a suitable Market, whereas if the river was rendered navigable every acre would be soon settled upon, thereby throwing into the National Treasury great sums, which will otherwise be lost for many years, perhaps centuries.

And we your humble petitioners will ever pray that this our second petition may be granted.
Almirante WALTON Co W. F. June 4" 1842
William Gaskins John Stevenson William Crane T. P. Crane J. D. Clary A Smith J. Steele Nicholas Baggett Andrew Baggett Allen Hart Dennis Hart Reuben Hart Reuben Hart Junr Daniel Hart Daniel McCaskill William Spiers Robert Steele Mack Steagall Archibald Steagall Reuben Steagall T McCaskill J. M. Harper G. Butler Hosea Eddins Shadrach Taylor Stephen Chauncey H Doles Wm. Johnston Wilson Hudgins William Hudgins Allen Wood Elijah W. Ward John Ward H. Hale H Steele P Steele B Langston E Higgs A Stokes Names *
John B. Meigs 1
Eli Horn 2
N. A. McDavid 3
N McDaVid 4
John Tirey 5
William Ward 6
Peter Campbell 7
Lewis Baggett 8
Absalom Fuquay 9
Randall Fuquay 10
A. H. Perkins 11
W. B. Perkins 12
Starks Baker 13
Henry Baker 14
Edmund Baggett 15
Thomas Baggett 16
Choice Baggett 17
Benj Pyeburn 18
Wm Savidge 19
Norman Morrison 20
John Stokes 21
Josiah Stokes 22
John Stokes junr 23
Henry Baggett 24
Alex Baggett 25
David Girtman 26
Joab Girtman 27
Richmond Barrow 28
John Barrow 29
Reuben Barrow 30
William Cawthan 31
Alex Fountain 32
John McDowell 33
D. A. Wilkinson 34
Alex Campbell 35
Thomas Dulany 36
Beverly Dulany 37
Wright Gaskins 38
John Gaskins 39

Jerry Barrow 79 Alfred Tillery 85
Jessee Senterfeit 80 Michael Baggett 86
Stephen Senterfeit 81 Joshua Baggett 87
Amos Ball 82 John Welsh 88
George M*Swain 83.84 James Perkins 89
[Endorsed] Florida—Inhabts Walton County appropriation obstructions Yellow River Dec 28, 1842 * Ref" to the Com” on Territories December, 29, 1843.” Com. of Commerce. to be sent M*
Levy Levy 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE FIRST COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY TO JOSEPH R. INGERSOLL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 1 sess.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT Comptrollers Office 9* June 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. At the request of the Hon D Levy of the House of Representatives I most respectfully apprize you that the sum required to pay the expenses of the Legislative Council of Florida for the year
1842, and the arrearages of previous years—in addition to the amount recently appropriated, will be 10,868 20/100 $, Ten Thousand, eight hundred sixty eight Dollars and twenty cents—for which sum it is desirable that an appropriatin be made as early as may be practicable, to enable the accounting Officers to proceed with the settlement of these accounts”
With great respect Your Ob" Sert JAMES WM MCCULLOH First Comptroller TO THE HBLE JOSEPH R INGERSOLL Chairman &c Amounts certified by 1* Auditor for 1842 wanting $8397.67
ditto for 1840–1841– ** 2470.53
p. Statements herewith Debs 10.868:20
J W McC
[Endorsed] HR. 500. Florida—expenses Legislative Council The estimate originally sent in by the Dept. was $34,540 It was reduced to $27.125 under the supp" it w" be enough The Leg. has since held its sess" & the sett" of the expences is suspended until the passage of this

</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE June 10th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Since my communication of the 26th. ulto.” to the Depmt.
I have been to St. Augustine and procured all the confirmed Spanish land-grants up to 1828, I shall soon have the remainder up to this date, likewise several Township plats; I perceive by them that very few of them are designated on the plats but are principally run into public Lands, & the claimants of those large Mill-grants it appears are claiming four times as much as their grants calls for, and are locating them wherever they can find valuable timber, & there is no other alternative to resort to but to employ a surveyor and ascertain the location of their grants according to the list I got from the Office of the Archives, & by this method there can be saved hundred of thousands of dollars worth of valuable timber, & it will result in this, when they find I know the public from the private Lands they will readily go forward & buy the said Lands & pay for them.
In the short period I have been here I have been informed by Col.
Cole that there has been a number of Applicants to enter Land, and he informed me that they appear to be convinced that I calculate to prosecute every man that trespasses on the public Lands, those men are prevented from entering and paying for those Lands on account of the Registers not being confirmed.
I have employed a County Surveyor at the per-diem of the pay
& emoluments of a Lieutenant of Engineers, he is to commence upon his duties when he returns from Surveying a grant near Lake munroe where he went with Mr Douglass & Fernandez, there is no doubt but what he can render valuable services to the Government, as he has lived in the Country & done much Government Surveying.
Permit me to call your attention to horse-hire, I find the country in such a state of affairs, from the privilege which the people have taken in Cutting timber & Saw-logs from public Lands (& I presume not being very closely looked after) I shall be under the necessity of being very diligent, it will be necessary for me to be operating by land or by water every day this Summer, & probably all fall &
winter, to put a thorough check to those Mill & Lumber operators-
In this case I shall stand in need of one or two horses, & two or three mules for packing & it is impossible to get a horse & have him

found short of two dollars a day, & in my opinion it would be a very great saving if I should be permitted to buy at the Government sale at Palatka on the 27th. of this month on account of the Depmt.
such horses & mules that I might stand in need of that would not cost one half the amount that it would to hire, another great advantage to derive from it, is that I could always have my horses any moment that I should want, but if I depend upon hiring, the very moment that I should want them more than probable it would be impossible to get them.
I have hired a small sloop for one month of about 15 tons burthen
& a crew I find that laboring men can not live upon a ration in this Country, I find that it requires a full ration & a half. As I
can draw no rations from the Commissary & have no money in my hands for expenditures I have to buy provisions on Credit, & at an enormous price at this place, if the Depmt. should confine me down to the price of a ration & a half & should be considerable the looser, but I do not mention this that I am apprehensive that all that is just & right will not be allowed, neither should I hesitate or stop my movements if I knew positively that it would cost me one half more than what I would be allowed by the Depmt. for I am determined if men want Lumber to speculate on they shall buy the Land in ad-
Vance, I have not heard from the Depmt. since my arrival here, please to inform me in regard to the horses before the day of sale, or give directions to that effect”—
Very respfy Yr. Ob. Svt.
H. L. THISTLE Agt for preservation of timber &c.
A. P. UPSHER, Secretary of the Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle 10 June 1842 to consider L Inform Thistle that the a/c is paid but charge him to make no more purchases without official authority. The articles must be accounted for when he shall have ceased to require them Capt" T. written to Aug 12 T204. June
20 Homans. Capt. Thistle's commission says: “You will also be allowed such reasonable expenses as may be necessarily incurred for horse and boat hire, when indispensable to the discharge of your duties.” Nothing is said as to the size of the boat, or the number of her crew.
No authority given to employ a surveyor. 1842 Jan 27. Capt. T
was informed that when the app" for the naval service shall have been made, his application for authority to purchase a boat of 50 tons, and two row boats would be considered.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO GEORGE E. MCCLELLAN</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book N–I]</source>
<place-time>P. O. DEPT. June 24th 1842</place-time>
<docbody>PM. Little River, Columbia Co. F. Ty.
SIR, Yours of the 11" instant," informing that several letters in a mutilated state and evidently taken from a mail, have recently been found in the road near the Post Office at Columbus Fl. is received, and will be referred, for the proper investigation, to L. G. Alexander Esqr, an Agent of this Department.
You will inform the Agent at what offices and of what dates these letters appeared to have been mailed and to what places they were, respectively addressed: and you will communicate to him all such futher information as may be in your power, calculated to aid him in his inquires upon the subject.
Address the Agent, freely but confidentially, under cover directed to the Postmaster at Augusta, Ga.
C.A.W. by S.B.B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT June 25* 1842</place-time>
<docbody>COLONEL W. J. WORTH, Commanding the Army in Florida.
SIR, Although it is very well known to this Department that you have evinced extraordinary zeal, judgment and activity in defending the inhabitants of Florida and Georgia from the inroads and depredations of the hostile Indians, and that you need no incitement to continued diligence and watchfulness in the promotion of that object, yet as great apprehensions are entertained that the severity of your pressure on the Indians in Florida will cause them to endeavor to escape into Georgia, I am urged to call your attention to the point. My conviction of its being wholly unnecessary, causes some reluctance in complying with these solicitations. But as it can do no harm, and as you will appreciate the motive, I would desire you to give your particular attention to the passes by which the Indians may elude your scouts and escape into Georgia. These passes are described in a printed letter of General Knight, contained in a document of the House of Representatives herewith transmitted to you. I would take extraordinary pains to obviate even a seeming, although not real, cause of complaint on the part of the people or public authorities of

Georgia and to remove all desire to have any portion of the militia of that State called into service.
You will, of course, not consider this communication as contravening the instructions heretofore given you, but rather in conformity to them."
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO R. B. HAUGHTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book N–I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEP* 28th June 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>R. B. HAUGHTON Esquire P Master Salubrity Flo. Ty.
SIR Your Office is a Draft Office, and will so continue untill further notice.”
C A. W.
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF LEON COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 27 Cong., 2 sess.:DS*]</source>
<place-time>[July 1, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled:
The Memorial of the undersigned, citizens of the United States, inhabitants of the County of Leon in the Territory of Florida respectfully sheweth:
That notwithstanding the solemn pledge of the nation made to

Spain, and to the inhabitants of Florida in the 6th article of the Treaty of Cession *; and although in 1837 the People of Florida, by popular vote, decided to become a State *; and although upwards of three years ago, they formed, adopted, and ratified a republican Constitution or form of government for themselves as the State of Florida; and although the Convention of the People preferred their respectful memorial to Congress for admission into the Union as a State"; and although that memorial has been followed up by respectful petitions of the inhabitants of the Territory, and of the Territorial Legislature in behalf of their constituents at each session of Congress since; yet these several and repeated applications have not been granted, and on the contrary have, as your memorialists humbly conceive, been treated with neglect and indifference, undeserved by the People of Florida, and which they were not justified as American citizens in anticipating, when they preferred them.
The undersigned respectfully renew said applications, and ask of the Federal Government to take action on this subject at the present session of Congress, by the admission of Florida into the Union as a State, under the Constitution formed and adopted at St. Joseph, January 11th, 1839, and ratified by a popular vote of the people. This course is desired by a very large majority of the people of Florida. When the Constitution was submitted to the people in May, 1839, for ratification, little time had been afforded to examine and discuss its merits, and hence many voted against it, and amongst them several of the undersigned, who now, after reflection, approve of its provisions, and are decidedly in favor of the immediate organization of the State Government, and admission into the Union under it. A project has been started for the Division of Florida into two Territories,” before the State Government is established, the East and South to compose one, and the Middle and West the other.—
Against this scheme we respectfully beg leave to enter our solemn protest. The East and South have joined in the formation of the Constitution—they should carry out the work and aid in the establishment of the State Government under it, instead of throwing it away and thus obliging the Middle and West to encounter the expense and incur the delay incident to the formation of another Constitution.
Besides but a small portion of even the East favors this project.
But we most cheerfully express our acquiescence in the insertion of a provision in the act of admission, that the inhabitants of the East and South shall, after the organization and establishment of the

State, become a separate Territory or State as soon as practicable, and we would desire for their security that the pledge should be made in as strong and explicit language as can be used.
The undersigned would respectfully urge upon Congress the justice and the policy of making, in the act admitting Florida a State, a liberal donation of the public lands within her boundaries, to enable her to get the State Government into operation efficiently, beneficially and successfully. Florida has been deeply injured, nay well nigh ruined, by the deplorable war which has raged here for six years past. Without reference to the immense individual losses by the destruction of property, and without looking to the sufferings sustained by thousands of her citizens being made houseless and homeless, and by having their families and friends barbarously murdered by the savage foe, as a community we have likewise been deeply injured. Millions of dollars would not repair the losses sustained by the people in the aggregate, without including individual cases as above mentioned.
These things are manifest to all who can compare our present condition with that before the war. Our most fertile fields, then in profitable cultivation, are now lying waste, with nearly every house and cabin, on a frontier of upwards of four hundred miles, burned to the ground, and hundreds of the best plantations deserted by their former possessors and grown up in bushes. Florida has been put back ten years by this war. Thousands who hold property in Florida have been deterred from removing hither, and many peaceful citizens have sought a less disturbed and dangerous residence elsewhere.
Her energies have been crippled, her resources are reduced, and all those means by which a people advance to prosperity and happiness have been diminished and weakened.
Surely when it is considered that this war was not commenced through the fault of the people of Florida, these facts should commend them to the nation as being entitled to its generous and liberal aid.
Such aid would encourage emigration, and to afford it would be a policy, wise in itself, and worthy the Federal Government. With such aid the State of Florida would be rendered fully competent for her own protection and defence. Florida will be a frontier State, distant from the seat of Government. From her geographical position, and her extensive seaboard, in time of war, she will be an exposed point of attack, and should be prepared to meet an invading enemy.
She should have arms, but arms are useless without men to bear them, and to supply and sustain men she must have means. The State of Florida should be encouraged; her speedy settlement should be promoted; she should be afforded aid in the outset of her career, and the appeal is now made because such assistance will be of greater value

than at any time hereafter. Nor can it be supposed that this appe.
of her people will be made in vain. Surely something is due to people who, while all the rest of the citizens of the United States hav been enjoying the inestimable blessings of peace, have been expose for six long years to the devastations of a murderous, savage, an relentless warfare, and deprived of those advantages which have beel common to all the rest of their fellow citizens.
The undersigned, however, forbear making further suggestions upol matters which they are satisfied will be manifest to the wisdom o Congress, and they respectfully ask a decision upon their application at this session.
And as in duty bound your memorialists will ever pray, &c.
H. V. Snell Lu" Burns M Swaim Jno. Parker A. R. Alexander E. W. Hannon C. E. Martin Thomas Lockhart Leonard Reed, Jr. J. Spencer C W Mathews M. A. Faust Wm R. Madden James Spencer Francis B. Whiting A. J. Smith Thomas Harris. E. B. Jenkins Robert May Sen. Edward Hinds G. G. Holt N. Walker, jr Ch' Smith . James Price
£ £ Jr. James Baker Carlisle enry Landers • in G. Miller £.
Sam Bray T. Beach Theo Bache - -
Laurance Woodsides Levi Spriggs Robt. H. Alexander Henry B. Inman, A. G. Middleton George Simons, John O'Conner William Coleman M. D.
John McCauley Sr. - N. W. Walker, Sr.
Wm. Mathers T. D. Van Horn SAINT MARKS, July 1, 1842.
[Addressed] Hon J. C. Calhoun Senator in Congress from S. C.
Washington City D.C.
[Endorsed] 27* Cong 2. Sess Memorial of a number of citizens of Florida, praying the admission of that Territory into the Union as a

State, and remonstrating against a division of the same. 1842 July 15
Referred to the Com: on the Judiciary *M* Calhoun
[Section Two of Subscribers to Memorial]
[JACKSON Co., Postmarked July 9, 1842]
Luke Lott * W. Watson Joseph Thomas D. Watson John Thomas M. Smith A J Wood R J Taylor S WOOd S. Richards S. Sutton J. Fletcher D Smith M. Nailor Micajah Thomas M Golden LA Thomas J Gideon
[Addressed] Hon. J. C. Calhoun Washington City D.C. [Postmarked] Ochesee Fla July 9" 1842 Free
[Section Three of Subscribers to Memorial]
[Gadsden Co., Postmarked July 9, 1842]
Isaac Jackson William Patterson Daniel Poland James Patterson Wiley Fletcher Birdsong Patterson James M Miller Harod Mills Isaac H. Stone A B Farley John Bird Perry Turner R. B. Evans Jo" M. Clieland William Knuf Linn Griffin G. C. Bird M Williames Alex H. Simmons Shephard H. Stone Bedreaden Caraway Daniel Smith Henry Lamb Matthew Taylor Allen Fletcher Wm L. Davis John Smith Wm. J. SansOne Edward J Lamb
[Addressed] Hon David Levy, Delegate in Congress, Washington, D.C. [Postmarked] Ochesee Fla 9 July—free
[Endorsed] Memorial of Isaac Jackson & others of Jackson Co for admn of Florida into the Union as a State

[Section Four of Subscribers to Memorial]
Ja” L. Barber T. J. Smith Warham Cromwell William Clark W. D. Price Tho. H. DuVal Allan Kennedy J. C. Marberry Joseph Ridler William R. Daffin David Webster W* H. Shepherd Ja” J. Penn Amos Brown Amos Cordsen Ja" C. Batchelor.
Ed. B. Jenkins Samuel Alexander John Richards Israel Moses.
Stephen S. Moore.
W" Humphries James Schuster Francis Byington Thomas Gill Edward Bolon Chas. Byington Samuel Allardyce James Grierson John Philip James Goslin Danniel Rowlett John Allardyce W" W. Briggs Wyley Briggs Washington Briggs William Briggs
[CALHOUN Co., Referred July 21, 1842)
Rowland W. Jenkins 24
L. S. Batchelor.
Henri C. Hasleett John Jenkins Lewis W. DuBois John D. Gray John Hance girolamo Leymawick William Gray Phineas Laprade Miles Butcher Jesse F. Potts William Patrick J C Umphries Jenry Humphries John Humphries Raphael J. Moses.
Donald Campbell John Williams Cyrus C Henry George Levingston Antonio Georgio George S. Hawkins Michael M*Allister John Kennedy Philip Shooks Joseph Weaver Walter Thompson Henry F Simmons Chas Wilson N. Hayden D Ragan Geo. St. Clair Geo: J Broughton William Rowlett Fran" Arnson

|Addressed] Hon J. C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City
[Section Five of Subscribers to Memorial]
Wm S Dunsmore W" H Spinny Moses Clarch R. H. Blount Md Geo Myres Francis Fitt Robert Prim Geo Hinds Niel Ferguson Winslow Nowood Sam" W Quay David Farnum Thomas Lewis John Hanson James C Johnson Oliver P. Saunders John Wilson W. J. Macdonald R Williams Jenkins Wm P. GOrman John Davis William Childers J, Warren, Brown Jno J Rawles N. W. Walker W. D. Branch W Kelly Alex" Munro
[LEON CO., Postmarked July 7, 1842)
Phineas Randall Benjamin Scott David Ladd H, Darden Peter Peterson Robert M. Spencer M A Faust James L Spencer J A Spencer S Jones Spencer Henry C. Walker Patrick Ellworths Samuel P Sumers B. Conner James Fields R Bennet Matthew Mulvy John Murphy Michael Wiggins E. H. Howe Havis John R. Havis John Hotser Charles Page Jesse J Wiggins his Elisha X Wiggins mark
[Addressed] Hon John C. Calhoun Senator in Congress from S. C.
Washington City D. C. [Postmarked] Port Leon Flo July 7 Free
[Endorsed on cover for last four sections]27* Cong 2. Sess4 Memorials of citizens of Florida, praying the admission of that Territory in the Union as a State, remonstrating against the division of the same, and asking a donation of the public lands within its limits. 1842 July 21.
Referred to the Com. on the Judiciary "M" Calhoun

[Section Six of Subscribers to Memorial]
[GADSDEN CO., Referred Aug. 10, 1842]
Stockley Sudbury A M Johnson Wm. E. Kilcrease Oscar Fillyard Wm. Edwards Thos M Worn E. S. Shepard J C Thomas H. Glenn Ro Dixson J Strong D H Smithwick H. W. Dixson A DeLacy Thomas Holt Newnan Gilchrist John D'Lacy S Dixson Newel Gilchrist J. Fillyard Alex E Gregory William Thomas E. D. Nourse Sam Quattleburn Jesse M*Call
[Addressed] Hon John C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City D. C.
[Endorsed] 27" Cong 2. Sess 3 Memorials from citizens of Florida praying the admission of that Territory into the Union as a State &c.
1842 August 10 Referred to the Com: on the Judiciary "M" Calhoun
[Section Seven of Subscribers to Memorial]
[GADSDEN CO., Referred August 10, 1842)
A, K, Allison Isaac Nathans Sn P. Allison James Lanier LW Spodl C. M. Harris S. C. M'Intyre B. S. Hawley John N. Cumming W. J. Armistead C. H. DuPont H Bestwick James Hine Cervantes Harris W. S. M. Davidson J”, H. Gibson J. P. Smallwood E. W. Rogers.
J. Montgomery M*Kinney Isaac Wilson John Wooten M L Cavert U*. WOOd J. H. Stockton R. L. Edmonds Jas. Fitzpatick A H Lanier Isaac R. Harris M. M. Johnston J Ferguson jr A Flower James Fish

James H. Rose Lewis Gregory Edward Ball John Lanier James Yacon Wm. Lanier S M Holloman John M W Davidson T D Wilson William J Atwater John A Boykin Joseph Austin Willis Hudnall A. R. Ransom John L. Smith W. Bains J Knowles Jason Gregory
[Addressed] Hon J. C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City D. C.
[Section Eight of Subscribers to Memorial]
[GADSDEN CO., Referred August 10, 1842]
B. Meacham Alfred Daniel R. K. Shaw R. McMillan L. W. White Jesse Lemra Saml B Stephens Isham Baley B. B. Meacham O H P Bailey T. J. Kenan S Caldwell J. H. Keadle L. A. Byrd Jas M Gilchrist Hugh O. M'Lean Jno. H. Gee Jesse Byrd John T. Seegar H H Kyle Jno. C. Love F Wellington R. H. Wilson R Forsyth H. L. Eagerton R. Mackereth J F May Jn° W. Malone Robt. T. Jones Levi Goodman Oliver Settle J. F. Innes G. R. Quinby Isaac C. Jeffress James Pirie Gideon Hawkins Wm L. Dilworth James Craw John Smith Jnr. John Sannarery D E Gillett Charles De Waal J H Muse G R Quinby R. C. Lester Archibald Smith B. C. West J M. Smith A McBride G. K. McLane Wm Dean O. W. Pittman James Gibson FM Vintry J H Wilder Daniel Shaw

G W Starnes W. J. Hawkins G. W. Benton John McMillen J. A. Towers John B. McCall H H Lewis Daniel Johnson John Edenfield H B Purkins Daniel Wilder Francis Picket 2.
Wm. E. NOWell Augustus McIntosh R B Clark C. D. Curgill Wm H. Hubbard R. L. Harrison Wm P Denison
[Addressed] Hon J. C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City DC
[Section Nine of Subscribers to Memorial]
[LEON Co., Referred August 13, 1842]
[Addressed] Hon J. C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City D.C
[Endorsed] 27* Cong 2. Sess 2. Memorials from citizens of Florida praying the admission of that Territory into the Union as a State.
1842 Aug. 13 Referred to the Com: on the Judiciary” M Wright
[Section Ten of Subscribers to Memorial]
[LEON CO., Referred August 13, 1842)
[Addressed] Hon J. C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City D. C
Simeon A. Braswell Malachi Jones Elisha Winslow Job Myrick James Wallace Jas A Myrick Sam C. Williams Richard Rogers Daniel Browning Cha" Fruct Bacon Thomas Baltzell F. B. Whiting Willis Bratcher A. R. Alexander Wm. Bratcher S. N. Fountain James L Hart James Archer Wm Ivy Henry King James J Cuthbert J. J. Thompson Thos. Jackson A. Cilly Andrew Bratcher P G W Walker Amos Rooke J. J. Burch W. H. Walker William Coon

W. B. Brazill George Cyphert Dan Cyphert John Cyphert Sam W Quay W T Bratcher David Burney Richard H. Bradford Edwd Bradford Henry Bradford Daniel Houck J Eliot C. B. West Jacob Strcman (Stroman)
Lewis Conner David Brown Adam Gramling Henry A. Stroman Geo. H. Fisher Robert B. Oliver Joseph F. C. Harley Amos Lee Richard Milles John B. Elliott Howell Peacock A J Rogers James Cohron Jacob Hay Hardy Blalock C C Moore Jacob F Horger John Wm." Lea W. Holland William Lee Samuel P. Fitt S. Branch C. R. Boyle Nat B. Patch
[Section Eleven of Subscribers to Memorial]
D. M. Hinson his Briant X Wickers mark Jordon Vickers James Wooddy W. Johnson Z. Fletcher g. M. Fletcher Con. Lorry Walter Walsh Asa Townsend M S Atkins John Howard
(GADSDEN Co., Referred August 15, 1842]
E. D. M. West N Lott John Phillips Greffin Ball Jesse Bryan H. J. Shands John Smith John Wilson Augustus Johns H C Maws Levi Porter Z M Lott Marcus Gillet
[Addressed] Hon J C. Calhoun Senator in Congress Washington City D. C.
[Endorsed] 27* Cong 2. Sess Memorial of a number of citizens of Florida, praying to have that Territory admitted into the Union as a State &c. 1842 Aug”. 15. Referred to the Com: on the Judiciary.”
Mr Calhoun

[Section Twelve of Subscribers to Memorial]
[WASHINGTON CO., Referred August 17, 1842)
Stephen J Roche Henry Oneal Wm. Miller Jesse B Lassitter William Waddell W. Cramrey J. B. Lockit Jr John W. Cook N. Miller Jno S Williams Lewis H. Miller N. H. Mitchell John Miller Henry Boit Washington Wood Hardy Wood Bartholomew Register
[Addressed] Hon John C. Calhoun Senator Washington DC
[Endorsed] 27" Cong 2. Sess Memorial of a number of citizens of Florida, praying to have that Territory admitted into the Union as a State &c. 1842 Aug". 17. Referred to the Com: on the Judiciary"
Mr Calhoun
[Section Thirteen of Subscribers to Memorial]
David C. Wilson Edwin W Dorsey A. J. Fisher T. Lane Betton James D. Westcott Jr A. E. Harris Stephen Grimes John L. Knapp W" G. Burgess Tho" J. Perkins Geo H. Meginness D. H. Ames Simon Towle Geo. F. Hatheway John. W. Argyle SW Levinus T H Austin Charles Stroman George N. Heir
[LEON CO., Referred August 30, 1842)
Benj. F. Whitner J L Wickers Josiah Kerr A M Hobby R. W. B. Hodgson Jn" M Boyle Elijah B Clark H B Bradford John Cook Jacob L. Felkel Tho" A Bradford Tho" Hodgson Dan B. Meginniss N. Williamson Jas Barry L. H. Branch Geo. W. Betton Richd A. Shine Amos Pippin

- = - ------------------- = - -
George Mears E Barnard jr Ro J Hackley J B. Bull Josiah Chasen GeO. T. Ward Sam Sibley John Judge Ja” L. Beck R. S. Hubbard Asa Munson Haley & Blocker A. P. Smith S W Burnett John J. Courtney Jas. T. Doffin Joseph D. Ryan M. S. Gillit John Wilford C. C. Williams Noah McElvy W. W. Waddel B. G. Thornton Jr.
Andrew Scott C E Bartlett John Parkhill James W. Sherwood B M*Kinney D M*Rainy H. Archer Henry Washington Albert Wines Richard Hayward Hy L. Rutgers H. W. Braden G. C S Johnson RO W. Blake Lem B. Brockett Thomas Gaskins MO: Brown EP Roberts Otis Fairbanks Jacob Baker Mathew Rieker Wmilliam H. Laing Geo. W. Hutchins A F Duval Leslie Thompson James S Burns James F Trotte Richard B. Carpenter W. Hilliard George Young Tho" K. Leonard Samuel H Dickenson J E Ritter Isaac Smith J S Russell John H. Rhodes Silas H. Courtney Rich" Saunders Thomas John Benjamin W. Gause H. R. W. Andrews Nathaniel White Charles Allegood Howel Wootin John Macinnis Samuel Thius Andrew Young Jonathan Watson Wm R. Ryan Lewis Grimes Hallafer Alldorf John Merick Wm H. Francis J D Coleman J D Worsham A M Martin Rob Lyon A. A. Mures Jas M. Williams James T Archer J. B. Johnson J. R. Canon Joseph Clisby Samuel Quaile John H Pope

A B Ware M G Jordan James K. Shell John Daffin John Young Edgeson Wilks H J Gaskins Solomon Sills Tho" H Burnett W B Guest Henry Saulsbury
[Endorsed] 27* Cong 2. Sess Memorial of a number of citizens of Florida, praying the admission of that Territory into the Union as a State, &c 1842 Augt. 30. Laid on the Table.” M" Calhoun THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO WILLIAM P. ARCHER
<source>[NA:ND, SN Lets. to Cong., Bk. 8]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT July 7* 1842</place-time>
HON W* P. ARCHER Ch" Nav. Com. Senate SIR, In my annual report I called the attention of Congress to the propriety of extending additional protection to the Live Oak timber belonging to the U. States.
Since that time, I have had occasion to communicate to the Naval Committee of the Senate, copies of letters received at this Department, showing the great extent of the depredations daily committed, on this valuable portion of the public property.—In a letter which I had the honor to address to the Hon. Mr Graham, of the 21* of Feb”
last,” I ventured to suggest the proper expedient for preventing these depredations. To these several Communications, I respectfully ask your attention. There are now employed, two Agents, one in East Florida and one in Louisiana. Another is required for the West Coast of Florida. I have not seen the bill making appropriations for the Navy, since it passed the Senate, but I am informed that it contains no appropriation for this object. It appears to me to be altogether too important to be overlooked. May I solicit your attention to it, and that you will see that the necessary appropriation be made. With the aid of small vessels of the Navy, as contemplated in the bill now before the Senate, or its Naval Committee I
do not doubt that ample protection can be extended along our whole coast, for fifteen or twenty thousand dollars per annum. The value of the timber annually destroyed for want of such protection, is many times as great I am with great respect Sir, Your Ob" Serv"
A. P. UPSHUR

</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd. Misc., Unentered:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE July 8th, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
SIR. As I am well aware of your intentions to do every thing for the welfare of your Country, & as your well known character insure me your willingness to receive information from any source although it may be tendered by one in the most humble Station, I
take the liberty to address you this communication in regard to the timber for which I have been appointed the Agent, & my views upon subjects connected with the Florida war.
I first beg leave to take up the subject of the bill which is now before Congress for the armed occupancy & Settlement of Florida.”
I am not fully conversant with the provisions of the bill, but from what information I can gather, I think it similar to the Bill proposed by Mr Benton of the Senate for the same purpose,” although it does not give so large a tract of Land to the Settler; The Bill now pending gives 160 acres of land to the Settler & he cannot have a title to the Land for 5 years.
My views are that this armed occupation & settlement of Florida can never clear the Indians from the Country, to be sure it has been argued in Congress that the far West was settled by the Pioneers of the Country, which fact I will admit, but I will show the difference in the Countries, we will take for instance Kentucky & Ohio, other States I might name which are not important to illustrate the difference of the two sections of the Country. Those two named States are well known as a garden-spot, every farm house is in call of another.
To look at the map you will perceive that Florida is made up of Lakes, Morasses, & hammocks; I believe it is given up by those who are well acquainted with Florida south of Latitude 28 or 9. that there is not one square mile out of 20 that is calculated for a poor man to become a Settler upon, & on that ground the pioneers can not have the advantages that they had in the Western States.
Those far west located their Settlements, the same as you would go into a harvest field, & commenced cutting, clearing & cultivating, the land being inch and fertile the Settlers could all be in call of one another, with good water & a healthy climate the men kept hearty strong & robust to endure any fatigue which might be necessary;

the savage had no grass-lakes, swamps, extensive hammocks, or land unfit for cultivation to secrete themselves in, & in Florida they hav all those above names places, the Climate is unhealthy, the inhabitant will continually be affected with the chill & fever, & attacks of the Bilious fever, and if they plant & raise a crop the Indians will skulk from their hiding places & harvest the same for them, this is one reason which I set forth showing that the armed occupation & settle.
ment of Florida will not have a good effect.
2dly. I persist that if Florida is ever Settled, the Southern part of it must be settled by wealthy men, where their planting can be carried on by Negroes, whilst the whites make good their retreat to some healthy situation of the Sea-board in the sickly season, Wealthy men will not settle it, for it is well known that those who had extensive plantations & a large number of Slaves have abandoned their places and could not be persuaded to return, although they had U S troops as protection to the frontiers, & can it be supposed as long as hostile Indians remain in the Country that they would go farther South in the wilds of Florida & remain there 5 years for the sake of 160 acres of Land.
To be sure if Govmt will give them the choice of location, to cut
& use the timber at their pleasure, there will be a great number of men who will come into Florida who will call themselves Settlers &
it would simply result in this men would form themselves into companies & locate all the valuable live oak & cedar Timber Land (I
speak from the knowledge that men have enquired of me where the best live oak timber land could be found) & they would cut, sell &
carry away, & in the space of 5 years there would not be a stick of Live-oak or cedar fit to put into a Sloop-of war upon the whole Peninsula of Florida.
Furthermore, the Indians will still be lurking in the Country &
multiplying & thriving, & as usual, constantly murdering & depredating whenever it suited their convenience.—The question may be asked, where this large quantity of timber will be carried? I will answer it would be carried to Europe, & sunk in docks where it will improve, whilst we will be crying out, “what a pity we have lost all of our valuable timber.”
It is the well know policy of Great Britain to “prepare for war in time of peace—I will now state my views upon the subject.-In my letter to the Secretary of the Navy of the 23rd–May last" in connection with my business as the agent for the protection of timber, I highly recommended a survey of Florida, & as the power is vested

in you to order a Survey whenever you think proper, I will now draw your attention to the subject—
1st. If the unsurveyed part of Florida should be surveyed, one of the great advantages would result in this, all of the valuable timber for Naval purposes could be reserved, & could be designated in such a manner that any agent or individual could know it from other lands, there could then, be no excuse for trespassing—
As the surveyed part of Florida now stands, I find that old Spanish claims of an indisputable nature (as well as some English transfered under Spanish Authority) are run out into Public Lands.—
In making my surveys, in order to convince myself whether persons are tresspassing or not, I find that Govm’t have actually made donations covering private claims, & likewise land has been entered &
payed for as public Lands at the land Office, where it was private property—The cause of this is the neglect of individuals producing their papers & claims, or the neglect of the Surveyors in not running out such private claims; This however cannot hapen again whenever you see fit to cause the unsurveyed part of Florida to be surveyed, as I have taken the precaution to get into my possession all the Old Spanish Grants which have been confirmed by the Commissioners or the Courts, & likewise those which are now pending.
In my letter to the Secretary of the Navy of the 23rd of May "I
recommended a re-survey of that part of Florida which has been surveyed on account of the above named difficulties, & the great difficulty to designate the Range, Township, & Section Comes, on account of the Corner marks in many instances having been put on small saplings which have rotted down, or been destroyed by fire, -
2dly—Another advantage would result from this survey.—When the Country should be surveyed & cut up into Ranges, Townships, Sections & Quarter Sections, if there were any Indian Towns, or places cultivated we would be sure to find them, & it is well known that nothing disturbs an Indian as much as a Survey of their Country.
This survey could be made with all safety with a force of 150 or 200
men, which would be sufficient to protect & guard 3 or 4 Surveying parties.
I will further give my views upon the plan to exterminate the Indians from Florida, that is, say a bounty upon each Indian's head;
this measure might probably be considered unpopular to the north, but to do away with this prejudice, we will say let Congress give a bounty of $500. for each Indian or Indian-negro taken prisoner &
nothing for those accidentally killed, & likewise 320 acres of good tillable land when the Indians shall be cleared from Florida, & if

Congress should pass such a law & limit the number of men to be engaged & furnish them with arms rations & amunition for one year, I
am of the opinion that in Six or eight months there would not be an Indian left in Florida.
I do not set forth this measure to be a popular one, but I consider it much more charatable than the one Congress has now under consideration, for that is nothing more or less than a bounty on an Indian's head—The setlers have no inducement to save an Indian's life or take a prisoner, they would shoot them down as the wolves in the forrest, & then let them lay, if they had an Opportunity."
My last arises upon this subject may not probably be considered worthy of notice, but I presume you will agree with me in my views upon the surveying of Florida, I am here, & am constantly engaged in the performance of my duty, & am ready to act in any capacity which may result in benefit to the Country—I have been principally operating in the Forrest in the vicinity of this place. To be sure I
have not been in the interior in the Indian Country, the reason that I have not operated further South is, that I have not had money or means, & Col. Worth (as I have been informed) was negociating with the Indians & considered the war at an end. There may not at this present time be more than 30 Indian warriors in the Country, but I am of opinion that our Indian friends have been always underrated & am still of the same opinion.”
Respectfully submitted H. L. THISTLE
Agent for the preservation of timber &
wood on Public Lands in East Florida.
[Endorsed] Cap" Thistle to the President—T-1842
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT FITZPATRICK AND WILLIAM WYATT TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Misc. Lets. on Rev. Marine:LS]</source>
<place-time>CEDAR KEYS July 9" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>COL Wm. J. WORTH
SIR. As you will shortly visit Washington City, and as we believe you feel a deep interest in the increase and prosperity of the new settlements on the southern portion of Florida, and that through

your influence much may be effected in correcting the abuses of the Revenue Laws, which have for years existed in this Territory, whereby much good will result to our Citizens; We have deemed it proper to make the following statement to you: Wiz., Previous to the Indian War, the Collectors at Key West permitted the subjects of Spain to make settlements, and carry on fisheries on the Coast of Southern Florida, where Indians were employed not only as fishermen at the Rancho's, but as Sailors to navigate those spanish vessels, among which were Antonio Nikeka (hanged by Col Harney) names no doubt familiar to you. Those vessels were in the habit of smuggling foreign goods on the Coast and frequently lay for months at .
Charlotte Harbour and other places with empunity, altho no such right was granted to them by the treaty of Cession; and vessels of the United States were prohibited under the severest penalties to catch fish or Turtle on the Spanish Coast. Many of those Spaniards acquired very great influence over the Indians, and exercised very great authority over them by forming connections with their women, and there is no doubt that they encouraged them to go to War with the whites if their removal to the West was insisted upon, and furnished them with amunition when the war commenced.
It is a fact not generally known that one Juan Badia in Havana was largely interested in those fisheries who never saw them. Those Spanish vessels frequently carried Indians in considerable numbers over to Cuba where they received presents &c Contrary to an express Law of the United States. It is well known to the revenue officers in South Florida that a class of vessels called Smacks, which catch fish on the coast of Florida, and carry them alive to Havana, do sail under two sets of papers & colors, Viz an American register and a Spanish coasting license. These vessels never hoist the American flag in Havana, nor do they ever present their American papers in the Spanish Custom house; but they hoist the Spanish Coasting flag and show their Spanish License, and every man on board has a Spanish name. When they Come to Key West they are Americans of course. This is an evil which should be corrected by the proper authority. Vessels both American and English are in the Constant habit of Carrying British free negroes to and from Key West, and the other Keys along the Florida reef to the Bahama Islands Contrary to the Laws of Florida and of the United States, and British vessels have been known to visit our Coast without being boarded by any Revenue officer. The situation of Florida at all times is a peculiar one, and more particularly so at present, and no foreign vessel should be permitted to come into our waters without the strictest search, as it is much to be feared that they will afford facilities to the Indians by selling them powder and lead, and to our slaves opportunities of escape

to the British Islands. If (as we have heard) the Spaniards again return to their Rancho's and are permitted to occupy and carry on fisheries as they did previous to the War, they will again acquire all their former influence over the Indians remaining in Florida, and which must result in constant difficulties with the settlers on the Coast, and scenes of bloodshed and murder will be as common as they were previous to the War. And if also the free negroes of the British Islands are permitted to come and go at pleasure as heretofore, the slave population a Florida particularly the Southern part will have every inducement held out to them to run away from their owners.
The practice pursued at Key West of making Citizens of foreigners particularly Spaniards when the are wanted to command an American vessel is as follows. A Spanish fisherman wishing to command an American vessel or vote at an election go with another Spaniard to a Justice of the Peace, where the one Swears the other was in Florida at the Cession of Florida, or as it is called “the change of flags;” this affidavit is carried to the Collector at Key West who gives him a protection or puts him on the vessels papers as Captain and he is ever afterwards recognized as an american altho he speaks no English We believe Sir that through your representations and influence such procedings will be put a stop to, and that much good will be the result, and thereby protection will be given to the Citizens of our Country forming new settlements on the Coast.
Very respectfully R: FITZPATRICK
W. WYATT
[Addressed] Col. W." J. Worth Commanding U.S. Army in Florida Cedar Keys
[Endorsed] R. Fitzgerold Cedar Keys. Fa. July 9th 1842 F 206.
Aug 31. M"Ginnis M*G will you send a Cutter to Key West it will be well to send a copy of this to the Coll"
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF HEZEKIAH HAWLEY AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (APALACHICOLA DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[July 11, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of HEZEKIAH HAWLEY, I have nomi-

nated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,”
Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Apalachicola District in the Territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said HEZEKIAH HAWLEY for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to
[L.S.] be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the eleventh Day of July in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty two and of the Independence of the United States of America the sixtySeventh *
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, DANIEL WEBSTER Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION OF COMMITTEE OF CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA OPPOSING ESTABLISHMENT OF STATE GOVERNMENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[July 11, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>At an election held at Piles' Mill on Trout Creek in Duval County on the Eleventh day of July 1842 for Field officers of the Eleventh Regiment of Florida militia composed of the counties of Duval and Nassau—after the Polls' were closed a meeting of the people was called to take into consideration the subject of State Government, recently agitated at several meetings in Middle Florida.
Mr Elijah Higginbotham was called to the chair and Ossian B.
Hart Esqr appointed Secretary—and the object of the meeting having been explained-Messrs J. D. Hart, J. B. Lancaster, M:Curry-J Piles and J. McRory—were appointed a committee to report Resolutions

expressive of the sense of the meeting upon this subject, who thereafter reported the following to wit:
Resolved that the Indian Depredations which have now continued more than six years, has greatly decreased the permanent population of East Florida-numbers having died from exposure and suffering, and large numbers from Savage barbarity, and the perils of battle, while the means of subsistence of the whole population have been greatly diminished by Indian plundering and deprivations, and by the difficulty of making and securing crops—and that under such circumstances, taxes to support State Government, would be ruinous, impolitic, and highly oppressive—
Resolved—That having once assumed State Government, we can never recede. but must continue ever after, to maintain that form of Government, be the taxes ever so burthensome and ruinous And that the offer made in Middle Florida of permitting East Florida to reassume the form of Territorial Government after we shall have bound ourselves to her to make her application the more binding imposing, is a shallow artifice for which there is no warrant in the constitution or Treaty, and we will not permit ourselves to be Gulled by it—
Resolved—As the Floridas were added by Spain to the United States, as seperate provinces we hold East Florida under that Treaty of Session to have seperate rights, and that her right to seperate and independant State Government is inalienable and can only be wrested from her by violence and oppression, the arguments of despotism—
Resolved—If Middle and West Florida wish admission into the Union as a seperate State, leaving East Florida to remain a Territory untill her own resources shall warrant her applying for admission we will throw no obsticles in their way—
Resolved—That we regard with scorn and contempt the impotent menace held out in some of the Middle Florida Prints, that if they cannot bring us to their measures by the wise and mild arguments of
“grass and clods” they “will try the virtue of stones” we do not desire any collision with them—we believe many of their best and most prudent Citizens—entertain no such sentiments—But should it come to that—Knowing our rights, feeling the Justice of our cause, relying also on the Protection of Providence and our own good right arm—
we say “let come what will come”
Resolved—That we are opposed to Banks and to faith bonds for Banks—to State Government and taxes at present—That we are resolved to maintain the political and legal rights of East Florida:
That her rights by the Treaty are separate from those of the Middle and West, and of course we claim a division of the Territory, and Separate Territorial Government—That we will support no person

for office—who does not support these doctrines—and hold our public servants each and every one of them to strict accountability for any violation of them—
Resolved—That a copy of the foregoing resolutions be forwarded to the Delegate in Congress—and that he be instructed to carry out our views, therein expressed—
ELIJAH HIGGINBOTHAM Chairman OSSIAN B. HART Secretary
[Endorsed] Anti State resolations of a meeting of citizens in Duval Co. Flo. against the admission of the Terry. into the Union & for the division thereof."
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF DILLON JORDAN AS JUDGE (WESTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[July 12, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of DILLON JORDAN Jun I have nominated and, by and with the advice and Consent of the Senate," Do appoint him Judge for the Western District of the Territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to Have and to Hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said DILLON JORDAN Jun" for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 12" day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortytwo—and of the Independance of the United States of America, the SixtySeventh.
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, DAN WEBSTER, Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF THOMAS DOUGLAS AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (EASTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys' Perm. Comms., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>[July 13, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of THOMAS DOUGLASS of Florida I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,”
Do appoint him attorney of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said THOMAS DOUG-
LASS for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the thirteenth day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty two and of the Independence of the United States of America the sixty seventh.
JOHN TYLER, By the President, DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF GEORGE S. HAWKINS AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (APALACHICOLA DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys’ Perm. Comms., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>[July 13, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of GEORGE S. HAWKINS, I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do

appoint him, Attorney of the United States, in and for the Appalachicola District in the Territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said GEORGE S. HAWKINS for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the thirteenth day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty two and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixty sixth.”
JOHN TYLER, By the President, DAN WEBSTER Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 352:ALS"]</source>
<place-time>No. 165. He Qrs. 9" Military Dep’ CEDAR KEYs July 24th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR; A deputation from the Southern Indians met me by appointment at Fort Brooke on the 21" They came with authority from the principal men to hear my talk—the object doubtless, with habitual Indian caution, to verify the accuracy of a previous messenger. I have the honor to forward a memorandum of what passed in council, and a sketch of the country” in which they are permitted to hunt and plant.
On the Gulf side there are natural & insurmountable obstacles to any settlement or occupancy by the whites south of Pease Creek. You will perceive that they are excluded from the Islands on the south and the entire coast (where our vessels are usually wrecked) on the east side.
I entertain no doubt of their sincerity, or that they will gladly conform to the terms of the indulgence accorded; but I have required the chiefs themselves to meet me at Fort Brooke on the 5" proximo, to give a pledge for the behaviour of their followers.

These messengers say that a large portion have secretly expressed a wish to come in in the Autumn to join their kindred in the West—a proposition which none dare make openly, as, by their laws such would be instant death.”
In respect to the few Creeks yet in Middle Florida, affairs are not so satisfactory. My messenger returned, for the third time, to day:
he states that thirty-six of the Warriors remain West of the Suwannee headed by the Chief Octiarti, who, with about half the number are disposed to peace and to go to the lands assigned them, some to emigrate: the other half, who cannot be made to believe that they will be pardoned, are for prosecuting the war. Sixteen, he says, have passed South of Suwannee determined on no further molestation of the whites.
I have now thirteen companies broken into small detachments &
disposed so as to give the utmost practicable protection to the settlements in Middle Florida. After perfecting the arrangement with those south, I shall withdraw the garrison (two companies) from Fort Pierce"—the post is inconvenient of approach & supply: covering no settlement or frontier, and only useful as a depot in respect to operations South, which of course are no longer in contemplation; besides it will be regarded as evidence of sincerity by the Indians, and make it necessary, as I desire it should be, for them to resort to Tampa to trade There is no longer occasion for the presence of the six companies of the 4* Infantry within this Department, and I shall be pleased to receive their route before leaving for the North, which I propose to do early after the 5" proximo.”
Very respectfully Yr. Obt. Ser'
W. J. WORTH Colo Cg THE ADJUTANT GENERAL U.S. army H* Quarters Washington.
[Endorsed] 165 E. H." Q Mily. Dep" No 9. Cedar Keys July 24/42
Col° W. J. Worth Command" Reports deputation from the southern

Indians & the terms of indulgence which will be accorded them:
expects to perfect the arrangement by the 5—proximo, after which the garrison of F* Pierce will be withdrawn—Affairs in respect to the Creeks, about one half of whom are disposed for peace &c disposition of the troops in Middle Florida—Asks orders for the six companies of the 4* Respectfully Submitted R. Jones A.g Aug. 4.1842 Printed in Doc. No. 82. 1* Ses. 28* Congress.—
[Enclosures]
Minutes of a Talk Held at Fort Brooke *
FORT BROOKE. July 22" 1842
Minutes of a talk held at F* Brooke. Fl” July 21, 1842 by Colo Worth with Fosse Hadjo, an indian of some distinction belonging to the Southern band.
Fosse Hadjo stated that he was sent in by Billy Bowlegs in consequence of a talk received from the Colonel by the old indian, & to say that the talk had made him glad & that the Seminoles and Mickasukies would all be glad to hear it:—that Bowlegs had gone to give the talk to such of his people as he could find, & that when he assembles them, which he expects to do soon, he hopes to have a talk himself, with the Colonel. He does not wish the Creeks to live with them; they cannot agree & should they occupy the same country there will be frequent difficulties amongst them owing to their bad conduct towards the whites. Sam Jones is the principal chief of the Southern Indians, but he has only ten warriors with him;” he does not know where Jones now is but he hopes soon to find him. Fosse Hadjo stated that Bowlegs had sent him with this talk, & to ascertain from the Colonel if the talk brought by the old Indian is a true talk.
Col° Worth stated to Fosse Hadjo that he had but a short talk to make. He had received word from the Great Father in Washington that there must be no more fighting between his white & red children
& that no more blood must be shed between them, but that they must be friends & shake hands together, that although he lives a great distance from them he sees the bleached bones of those who have been killed & it makes his heart sad. That the Great Father who sends this word is not the same they had some time since but has been recently chosen by his white children. He is willing his red children should remain in Florida or go to Arkansas as they may prefer; but as their friend and father he advises them not to remain here, but to join their red brethern in the West because many of

their relations, some their fathers & mothers, some their children, & others their brothers or sisters, have gone there, & those that remain are few in numbers, & the whites are fast settling the country, -
the red men are decreasing in numbers while the whites are increasing—they will be surrounded by a large number of them in a short time, and as there are some bad men amongst the whites, as there are also some bad Indians, they may have trouble. It would be better therefore that they should be seperated a great distance from each other, but they could choose for themselves. Should they go to the West they will receive money and a rifle for each warrior, also rations for one year—Should they remain they will receive nothing:
but only be permitted to occupy a piece of land, which they are distinctly to understand they are not to leave except to visit Tampa to trade where a trading house will be established for them. The country they are to occupy is the same that was set apart for them by Gen' Macomb in his arrangement with Chittey Tustenugge in 1839.
As some of our vessels may be wrecked on the coast, they are to promise to take care of & treat with kindness all persons they may find on the coast, and bring them in to the whites from whom they will receive pay for their services either in goods or money. This must be particularly attended to as any outrages committed on these unfortunate persons will be severely punished. They must see that any depredations which may be committed by their people on the whites are punished by the Indian law; & any that may be committed by the whites on their people in like manner be punished by the law of the whites. As their numbers were now so few the Great Father was quite indifferent whether they remained in the country or went to the West, but if any should hereafter wish to emigrate they would be sent to Arkansas at any time their numbers would amount to forty or fifty.
The Colonel further stated to Fosse Hadjo that he wished to have a talk as early as possible with Bowlegs & the rest of his people, who are authorised to transact business for the whole of them, &
Fosse Hadjo promised to return in 17 days & have the talk required.
He did not know if Sam Jones could be found in time for the talk, but would endeavour to have him & the Prophet both present. He also promised to bring with him some runners to carry a talk to the Creeks. When shown the Map of the portion of country to be allotted to them, embraced in red lines, he said he had a field just outside of that line & asked if the line could not be extended so as to take in the field. He was told this could not be done, but that he

might this year gather the crop he had planted, but the next year he must plant within the line, with which he appeared quite satisfied.
He left here on the 22" with the talk to Bowlegs, to return with that chief & others in 17 days & requested that on the thirteenth day Passacca & Interpreter Toney might come out to meet them on their way in.
(Sig'd) S. COOPER A. A G.
(Sig'd) W SEAWELL Capt 7. infy
(Sign'd) J. TSPRAGUE Lt &. A.D. C
[Endorsed] Col: Worth 4. Aug" 42 Fort Brooke July 22/1842 Major S. Cooper Asst A Genl 352 Col: Worth 4" Aug: 1842 Minutes of a talk held at F* Brooke by Col° Worth with Fosse hadjo an indian of the Southern band Respectfully Submitted R. Jones Ag Printed in Doc. No. 82, 1* Ses. 28th Congress.”
Order No. 27. Military Department No. 9.
Hd. Qrs. Mily. Dept. No. 9. CEDAR KEYS. August 11. 1842
Order No. 27. I . . . By arrangement with the few Indians remaining in the Southern portion of Florida, between whom and the whites hostilities no longer exist, they are permitted for a while to plant and hunt on the lands included within the following boundaries, to wit: from the mouth of the Talakchopko or Pease Creek up the left bank of that stream to the fork of Southern branch, and following that branch to the head or northern edge of Lake Istokpoga;
thence down the Eastern margin of that Lake to the Stream which empties from it into the Kissimmee river, following the left bank of said stream and river to where the latter empties into Lake Okeechobee; thence due South through said Lake and the everglades to Shark River, following the right bank of that river to the Gulf; thence along the Gulf shore to the place of beginning, excluding all islands lying between Punta Rassa and the head of Charlotte Harbor.
Within the boundaries herein described no settlement can with safety or propriety be formed, and any persons making settlements within those limits will be subjected to removal in conformity with the laws in reference to Indians and their places of residence.
II . . . The foregoing temporary arrangement being in conformity with the instructions of the President of the United States, is communicated for the information of all whom it may concern.
By order of Col. Worth
(Signed) S. COOPER, A.A.G.
[Endorsed] 352—W–42

Table Showing the Number of Indians Remaining Out From a close examination at different times, of Indians in possession, generally agreeing in results and from information obtained from various other sources, the following table has been formed showing the whole number of indians remaining out.
In the examination there has been a singular coincidence of statements, but where there was a discrepancy the highest number has been taken in forming this table.
Sam Jones' band, supposed to be about the head waters of the Locka Hatchee, -
thence south The Prophet, including Bowlegs supposed to be in the direction of the Mangrove Lake, South, near Key Biscayne—
Assinawa, including Chitto Tustenuggee &
several straggling indians, supposed to be on or about the Kissimmee–
Halick Tustenuggee, ranging in the direction of Haw Creek, &
Tomoka, thence South Powis Cochucknee, range the same & associated with Halick The two Octiartis, between the Suwannee &
the Withlacoochee
15
13
20
12
20
31
40
20
46
37
60
32
10
47 Mostly Mickasukies, some Seminoles.
All Creeks but two.
Seminoles,—communication has been had with this party, & they will be doubtless with us in a few days.
Mickasukies Creeks Creeks.

Hothlepoyee Tustenuggee, including Cotza Fexico Chopko, Chitto Hadjo, &
Alpata Tustenuggee range in the ham- In equal numbers, mocks of the Esteen- Creeks Tallahassees, hatchee &c— 19 30 49 & Mickasukies—
Oyene sa, range in the hammocks on the Ocklocknee and that neighborhood— 7 13 20 | Creeks Total 112 | 189 301.
Of the above there are 120 Creeks including 45 Creek warriors dispersed among the several bands, who were not parties to the original contest.
[Endorsed] 74. Table shewing the number of indians remaining out Feb. 14"/42 Copy for the Adj General. S. Cooper A.A.G. 298
Col: Worth 6 July. 1842
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Recd.:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE July 25th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to submit herewith a communication to this office from the Fifth Auditor of the Treasury, with a diagram in pencil of the Mosquito Inlet East Florida,” requesting that from five to ten acres on each side of the Inlet may be reserved from sale or entry, and set apart for the use of Lighthouses at the points thereon designated.

No obstacles are known to this Office, why the reservations asked should not be made, I would therefore respectfully recommend, that the papers be submitted to the President for his approval, for which purpose an endorsement has been made on the Auditors letter for the President's signature & on return of the papers to this Office the necessary instructions will be given to the Surveyor General.”
A tracing of the sketch has been made in ink, and will be found herewith, on which to base the action of this Office.
I am, sir, Your Ob" Servant THO H BLAKE Commissioner To THE HON. WALTER FORWARD Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Let the land within mentiond be reservd from sale—J
Tyler July 27, 1842 C. 664. July 25.”
[Enclosure:LS]
Stephen Pleasonton to Thomas H. Blake TREASURY DEPARTMENT 5” Auditor's Office, July 14” 1842.
SIR, As it is probable an appropriation will be made during the present Session, with which to rebuild the Lighthouse at Mosquito Inlet, recently called New Smyrna, in Florida, it is proper that the site, which is represented to belong to the U. States, should be reserved from sale, & set apart for the use of the Lighthouse.
The Lighthouse heretofore build, & demolished by the sea, was located on the south side of the entrance into Mosquito Inlet. It has been recommended that the location be changed to the North Side of the entrance into Mosquito Inlet; & as the land on both sides of the entrance into the Inlet, is stated to belong to the United States, it is desirable that from five to ten acres of land be reserved at each place, so as to allow us an option in building the Lighthouse on one side or the other as may be thought best.
I send you a rough sketch of the entrance into the Inlet in question, with a request that if the land on both sides should have been surveyed, & if not—when it shall be, you will be pleased to reserve it



from sale, & set apart from 5 to 10 acres at each place for the use of a Lighthouse, or Lighthouses.
I have the honor to be Your Ob" Serv"
S. PLEASONTON
THOMAS H. BLAKE Esqr, Commissioner of the Gen' Land office.
[Endorsed] Treas Dept 5 Auditor 14 July 1842 S. Pleasonton 5"
Auditor Requests that from 5 to 10 acres of land, on both sides of Mosquito Inlet, recently called New Smyrna, in Florida, be reserved for the purpose of building a light house, if surveyed, & if not, so soon as it shall be. Let ten acres of land at each of the points herein designated be reserved from sale or entry for the purposes specified.
July 1842. July 15th 1842
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>August 8–1842</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR, The Acting Secretary of the Treasury has directed, in a communication to this office bearing date the 4" inst.” that the salaries of the Surveyors General of the public lands & those of their clerks, shall be paid by remittance to them on accounts stated by the Accounting officers & that in no case, can Receivers of public moneys be permitted to make payments on that account, without express authority of the Department. I have therefore to request that hereafter you will discontinue the practice hitherto permitted at your office, of drawing upon the Receiver at Tallahassee for the salaries of yourself & clerks, & transmit your accounts & vouchers therefore direct to this office, to be audited by the First Auditor of the Treasury & the amount found due remitted to you according to the practice at all the other Surveyor's offices.”
I am Sir very resp? Y’r obd" servt THO H BLAKE Comm”

</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 390: LS*]</source>
<place-time>No. 170. He Q Mily. Dep" No. 9. CEDAR KEYs Aug' 12" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I have now to report the thorough pacification of this territory. Holaeta Emathlachee (Bowlegs) accompanied by two noted sub-chiefs, representing the Southern Indians, met me at Tampa on the 5" ins" and in their behalf gladly accepted the concession reported in my dispatch of the 24" ulto.” Coming with me to this place they proceeded in search of the Creeks, and returned on the 10" with Octiarti,” Tiger-Tail and others representing those people. The former are to pass within the designated limits immediately; the latter as soon as they can be collected. Some have already crossed the Suwannee, and the whole will have done so in ten or twelve days.
Many have already signified a wish to be sent to their friends in the West, Tiger-Tail particularly is urgent to go immediately: but I have represented the importance to himself to take a respectable band with him.
Orders will issue immediately to concentrate the 3" Infantry upon Fort Stansbury" (the depot in that quarter) and Cantonment Morgan,” five companies at each; the 8" except the garrison of Fort King, upon Palatka. The 4" is already in position of one, two, and three day's march from the point of embarkation, when such shall be directed.*
The posts generally being supplied with subsistence for a month, the movement of the first and last Corps will be gradual and not completed 'till the last Indian shall have crossed the Suwannee.
I shall proceed to Palatka on the 15", at that place surrender the command to Col” Wose, and then be governed by the instructions of the General in Chief of the 11" of May.”

I have to acknowledge the rec" of the following communications
& orders, to wit:
Received July 16" Special Order No 55.
66 “ 23" General order No 40.
44 “ 30 General orders No. 41, 42 & communications of July 14" “ Aug' 11" General orders No. 43. 45. Special orders No. 62.63. & communications of July 25"
I am unadvised of the rec" of my communications to the Adjutant General since June 15" with the exception of No. 161, acknowledged by last mail.”
Very respectfully Yr. obt. Serv"
W. J. WORTH, Colo Comg THE ADJUTANT GENERAL U.S army H* Q" Washington
[Endorsed] 390. (170) Ho Q" Mily. Dep" No. 9. Cedar Keys Aug 12/42. Col° W. J. Worth Commanding. Reports thorough pacification of the territory & disposition of the troops. Augt: 20.
1842
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE August 18" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to bring to your notice the accompanying copy of a letter received at this office this morning from W. Wyatt,"
in relation to live oak lands in Florida, and lying, as he states, on the “Mounatee river, thirty five miles South of Fort Brook in the District of Country assigned to Settlers by the late Act of Congress providing for the armed occupation of Florida.”—
The writer States that he is engaged in “making large openings of land with the view of cultivation, on which large quantities of live oak timber Stands, and having to deaden or otherwise destroy said timber” he makes the enquiry whether he has not the right to use such timber, accompanied by the remark that “without this right, valuable timber will be lost producing no good either to the Settler or govenment.”
He also proposes to contract with the Department for the timber cut down, (it is presumed he means,) in the preparation of settle-

ments under the recent law to which he refers. Mr Wyatt has been referred to your Department as the authority having exclusive control of the subject to which he refers.
I will avail myself of this occasion to invite your attention to the provisions of the Act of Congress approved on the 4” August, 1842,”
entitled “An Act to provide for the Armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsular of East Florida,” and as this Office has under consideration the instructions and forms necessary to carry into effect the provisions of that Act, I would be happy to receive your advice in relation to the provisions and restrictions which you may deem necessary to impose on the settlers in order to protect the live oak timber growing upon the public lands.
I have the honor to be With great respect Sir, Your Obt Serv"
THO H BLAKE Commissioner HON. A. P. UPSHUR Secretary of the Navy Department.
[Endorsed] General land office Aug. 18th 1842 I respectfully refer Mr Blake to my various communications to the naval committee of the Senate, & house upon this subject ans" Sept 1.” G 88 Aug 24
Homans 
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF GEORGE W. MACRAE AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (SOUTHERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys' Perm. Comms., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>[August 24, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of GEORGE W. MACRAE I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” Do appoint him attorney of the United States, in and for the Southern District of Florida and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said GEORGE W.

MACRAE for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.”
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the twenty fourth day of August in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty two and of the Independence of the United States of America the sixty seventh.
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>INSTRUCTIONS TO REGISTERS OF ST. AUGUSTINE AND NEWNANSVILLE LAND OFFICES</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Reg. and Rec., Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, August 25th, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>Instructions Under the act of 4th August, 1842, entitled “An act for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida.”
TO THE REGISTERS OF THE LAND OFFICES, At St. Augustine and Newnansville, East Florida:
GENTLEMEN: Annexed is a copy of the act of Congress, approved on the 4th instant, entitled “An act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida.” 95
“Any person being the head of a family, or single man over eighteen years of age, able to bear arms, who has made, or shall, within one year from and after the passage of this act, make an actual settlement within that part of Florida situate and being south of the line dividing townships numbers nine and ten, south, and east of the base [meridian]" line, shall be entitled to one quarter section of land,” on the conditions prescribed by the law; and which conditions are numbered in the act, first, second, third, and fourth.
The first condition is, “that said settler shall obtain, from the Register of the Land Office in the district in which he proposes to settle, a PERMIT, describing, as particularly as may be practicable, 

the place where his or her settlement is intended to be made: Provided, that no person who shall be a resident of Florida at the time of the passage of this act, who shall be the owner of one hundred and sixty acres of land at the time he proposes to settle, shall be entitled to a permit from the Register.”
As our immediate action in the execution of this law is confined to the foregoing provisions contained in its first section, the present directions are restricted to the provisions of that section alone, leaving the other portions of the act, which are of prospective effect, (requiring certain future acts and proceedings on the part of the settler,) to be subjects of future instructions.
Your first duty, in executing the law, will be to require from the settler who applies for its benefits, a NOTICE, in writing, according to the following form, blanks for which are herewith furnished.
Under the provisions of the act of Congress, approved on the 4th day of August, A. D. 1842, entitled “An act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida”—
To all whom it may concern:
Notice is hereby given, that under the provisions of the act of Congress above cited, I, A. B., do hereby apply to the Register of the proper Land Office for a PERMIT to settle upon one hundred and sixty acres of unappropriated public land, lying south of the line dividing townships numbered nine and ten, south of the base line, and situated as herein described.
I aver that I am, (note 1 shows how this blank is to be filled,) and that I became a resident of Florida in the month of [Blank], of the year [Blank]. (See note 2.)
I aver that the settlement herein intended is not “within two miles of any permanent military post of the United States, established and garrisoned” at the time of such settlement, and that the same is not known or believed to interfere with any private claim that has been duly filed with any of the Boards of Commissioners, surveyed or unsurveyed, confirmed or unconfirmed. (See note 3.)
Given under my hand, this [Blank] day of [Blank], A. D. 184
[Blank].
TO THE REGISTER OF THE LAND OFFICE, At [Blank], East Florida.
Note 1.—This blank must be filled up in the words of the law, according to the circumstances of the case, thus:—
“The head of a family,” or “a single man over eighteen years of age, able to bear arms.”

Note 2.—As the first condition of the first section of the law provides, “that no person who shall be a resident of Florida at the time of the passage of this act, who shall be the owner of one hundred and sixty acres of land at the time he proposes to settle, shall be entitled to a PERMIT from the Register,” it follows, that if the date with which this blank is filled, shall be on the 4th day of August, 1842, (the day when the act was approved,) the settler must accompany his “Notice” with some evidence, that he is not the owner of one hundred and sixty acres of land; and that evidence will have to be his own affidavit after the following, or any other equivalent form.
FORM OF AFFIDAVIT.
I, A. B., being a settler in Florida, on the 4th August, 1842, and being about to apply to the proper authority for the benefit of the act of Congress, approved on the day aforesaid, entitled, “An act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida,” do hereby declare on oath, that I am not the owner of one hundred and sixty acres of land.
(Signed) A. B.
Sworn and subscribed before me, an acting Justice of the Peace, for East Florida, this [Blank] day of [Blank], A. D. 184 [Blank].
(Signed) C. D. Justive of the Peace.
Note 3.—In case the land has been surveyed, [here insert its proper description, as the (Blank) quarter of section number (Blank)
in township number (Blank) South of range number (Blank) East.]"
But, in case the land has not been surveyed, the applicant, in this part of his notice, must describe with as much precision and clearness as practicable, the locality of the tract which he desires to settle upon, in reference to some natural object, such as a river, or its tributary stream, lake, pond, bayou, lagoon, or some other known and conspicuous object, such as the name of a hammock, prairie, or sink, of well known locality, or battle ground, or other spot rendered notable either of late or remote years. If such object, as herein alluded to, should not be in the immediate vicinity of the tract, it may nevertheless be useful to state the distance and bearing of the same, either from the “beginning” point of the settlement, or any other corner of the same. Such “beginning” point to be well defined, so as to admit of its being hereafter clearly identified by the surveyors and shown in connection with the public surveys; thence, (continuing the description from such “beginning” point, we will say for sake of example,) running due north, so many chains and links, yards or feet, according to the mode of measurement employed; thence, due

east, a given distance to be similarly stated; thence, due south, a given distance to be similarly stated; thence, due west, to the place of
“beginning.”
It is highly desirable that such diagram should exhibit the measurements in the most accurate manner, as by due care and precaution in the outset, much subsequent embarrassment and confusion may be avoided; and all such diagrams of settler's claims will be afterwards indicated by dotted lines on the official plat of survey, and prove most useful and material evidence in the final adjustment of the boundary lines of claims before the patent can issue. Hence, the settler may perceive the advantage which will ultimately result to himself by having the lines of his claim run carefully with chain and compass as the best mode of insuring accuracy.
The statements made in the Notice are to be sustained by the affidavit of the party before a Justice of the Peace, and which affidavit is to be endorsed on the Notice, thus:
“I swear that the statements herein made are true, to the best of my knowledge and belief.”
(Signed) A. B.
Sworn before me, an acting justice of the peace for East Florida, this [Blank] day of [Blank] 184 [Blank]
(Signed) C. D. Justice of the Peace.
On the filing of a notice you are required to examine your records, and also refer to the office of the keeper of the archives at St. Augustine to ascertain, if possible, whether any private claim, which may have been duly filed before any Board of United States Commissioners, the boundaries of which are distinctly and fully designated, is likely to be interfered with by the designed settlement; and should you, in any case, be satisfied that such interference is likely to take place, there will be valid cause for your refusal to issue a permit for the land asked for, where the same is found interfered with by a private claim. If no ground for apprehended interference is found to exist, you will forthwith issue your permit in the form subjoined.
PERMIT
No. [Blank]
To settle, under the provisions of the act of Congress, approved on the 4th August, 1842, entitled “An act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida.”
Pursuant to the provisions of the act aforesaid, [Blank] is hereby declared to have permission to make a settlement, in virtue of the authority of said act, on a tract of public land situate “south of the line dividing townships numbers nine and ten south,” in the peninsula

of East Florida, and which he describes in the mode set forth in the accompanying copy of his notice, the original of which has been placed on file in this office.
The conditions on which this PERMIT is granted, are as follows:
[2d.]* That said settler [Blank] shall reside in the Territory of Florida, south of the said township line, for five consecutive years, and to take his grant on any public land south of that township.
[3d.]* That said settler shall erect thereon a house fit for the habitation of man, and shall clear, enclose, and cultivate, at least five acres of said land, and reside thereon for the space of four years next following the first year after the date of his PERMIT, if he [or she]
shall so long live.
[4th.]” That such settler shall, within one year after the survey of said lands, and the opening of the proper office for the entry and sale of the same by the United States, prove before such tribunal, and in such manner and form as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the approval of the President, the fact that the settlement has been commenced, and the particular quarter section upon which it is located; and also that such settler shall, within six months after the expiration of five years from the date of his permit, prove, in like manner, the fact of continued residence and cultivation, as required in the second and third conditions herein above prescribed; whereupon, and not until then, a patent shall issue to said settler for such quarter section.
The act declares, “that no right or donation shall be acquired under this act within two miles of any permanent military post of the United States, established and garrisoned at the time such settlement and residence was commenced.”
The act further declares, “that all sales, gifts, devises, agreements, bonds, or powers to sell, transfers, or liens, whatsoever, private or judicial, of the lands, or any portion thereof, acquired by this act, made at any time before patents shall have issued for the same, shall be utterly void and without effect, to every intent and purpose, whether in law or equity; and the purchaser or obligee under any such sale, agreement, bond, or power to sell, transfer, or lien, shall not be entitled to recover back the price or consideration paid therefor, but shall forfeit the same absolutely to such settler or his heirs.”
The act also declares, “that upon the death of any settler before the end of the five years, or before the issuing of the patent, all his rights under this act shall descend to his widow, and heirs at law, if he leaves a widow, and to his heirs at law if he leaves none, to be

held and divided by them according to the laws of Florida, any previous sale or transfer of the same, or of any interest, legal or equitable, in the same to the contrary notwithstanding; and proof of his compliance with the conditions of this act, up to the time of his death, shall be sufficient to entitle them to the patent.”
It is to be distinctly understood that this PERMIT is not designed to confer any rights, whereby the live oak and red cedar timber abounding on the public lands, shall be interfered with to the detriment of the United States, for whose use such timber is reserved and protected by the act of Congress, approved on the 1st March, 1817, entitled
“An act making reservation of certain public lands to supply timber for naval purposes.”
Given under my hand at the Land Office, at [Blank] this [Blank]
day of [Blank] 184 [Blank]
[Blank] Register of the Land Office.
The notices are to be carefully filed in your office; each of them to be endorsed with the name of the party, the number of the notice, and referring to the date of the PERMIT thereon issued; the number assigned to which must, in every instance, be the same as that of the notice.
You will keep a book to be styled “Docket of Permits granted to settlers by the Register of the Land Office at [Blank], pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress approved on the 4th August 1842, entitled ‘An act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of Florida,’ ” and which will be columned off in the following mode:
1st column—Number of Permit.
2nd do. Date of the Permit.
3rd do. Name of settler to whom granted.
4th do. * Brief reference to the designed location, by regular designation of quarter section, township, and range;
or otherwise, if the land is not surveyed.
5th do. f Number of notice filed.
6th do. f Date of notice filed.
7th do. Name of person to whom the Permit was delivered.

In addition to such docket, it will probably become necessary to keep an Alphabetical Index of the names of parties filing notices, for facility of reference. Such index would consist of—
1st. Name of settler filing notice.
2nd. Number of Permit granted.
Copies of the notices under which Permits are from time to time granted, together with copies of the diagrams accompanying the same, will have to be furnished by you to the SURVEYOR GENERAL for his information, and to enable him to give the proper instructions to his deputy surveyors.
Similar copies of the Notices must be furnished to this office at the end of each month, as also certified transcripts from your docket.
Prior to transmitting such copies, however, you will take the precaution to compare the same with the originals, with the aid of the Receiver, and you are requested to attach thereto your joint certificate of examination.
I have to enjoin on you the exercise of every diligence, care, and promptitude necessary to a faithful and satisfactory execution of the law.
I am, respectfully, Your obedient servant, THO. H. BLAKE, Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS AND GEORGE W. COLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Reg. and Rec., Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>August 26–1842</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER & RECEIVER St Augustine E. Florida GENTLEMEN, The attention of this office has recently been called to a list of tracts, reported by you on the 3" July 1840, as “the selections of school lands made by the School Committee of St Johns County” in your district.
It appears from this list that the provisions of the Act of 20" May
1826, entitled “an act to appropriate lands for the support of schools, in certain townships & fractional townships, not before provided for”,”
as well as the printed circular letter of instructions issued with the view of carrying it into effect, & for securing uniformity in the Reports of the district land officers, have been entirely misunderstood by you.
Inasmuch as you have in some cases reported the selection of a section of land for a township having within its limits a full 16" section, & in

others reported in like manner, an entire section for a township in which the 16" section is partially covered by private claims.
The laws authorizing the President to survey & offer for sale the public lands in Florida, directs that the sections & fractional sections N 16, in every township & fractional township, without regard to their area or that of the township in which situated, be reserved from sale for the support of schools.
The act of 20 May 1826 does not authorize the inhabitants of any township to exchange or give up their 16" Section or any part of it, & take other lands in lieu thereof, but it is intended only to provide school land for townships in which there is no section of that number, or in cases where the section, from being fractional, contains a less quantity than the township is entitled to by the ratio fixed by the act.
When Florida shall be admitted into the Union as a State, there is but little doubt that she will be allowed an equivalent in other lands for such sections N° 16 within her limits, as may be covered in whole or in part by private claims or that may be otherwise disposed of by Congress, as was the case with all the land States heretofore admitted.
In all cases where a selection is to be made for a township containing a fractional 16" Section, such quantity only is to be selected as will, with the area of the said fract' 16" sect" make the quota authorized by the law.
There is no law granting to the Territories the sections surveyed as N° 16 within their limits for the support of schools. They are only at present to be considered as Reserved, & are to be withheld from sale or entry of every description, except in cases where they may be disposed of by special acts of Congress.
With respect to any selections that have been or may hereafter be made under this act, of May 1826, you will bear in mind & so advise those interested, that there is no law by which such selections can be granted or confirmed to them, & that the action of the Department can extend no farther than to withhold them from public sale & from entry at private sale; as the provisions of the act are not extended to the Territories & embrace only the States.
You will consider the selections enumerated in the list before mentioned, except such as are designated in the enclosed paper marked N° 1, as null & void, & immediately advise this office, if they were withheld from the public sales, in order (should such be the fact) that measures may hereafter be taken to have them proclaimed by the President, & offered at public sale. Should any of the selections have been made subsequent to the offering at public sale of the townships, the lands will then have to be treated in the manner pointed out by

the 9" article of the printed circular of the 1" January 1836, before they can be again subject to private entry.
The tracts named in the paper N° 1, you will be pleased to enter on your tract books & Plats as school selections, & withhold them from private entry.
Very resp? Your obd" Serv"
THO H BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>JOSIAH H. VOSE  TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., V 53:LS]</source>
<place-time>No 8 Head Quarters Mily Dept. No 9 CEDAR KEYs Sept. 8. 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I have the honor to forward herewith for the consideration &
action of the Secretary of War a communication I have received from Capt. Seawell 7 Infy Comdg Fort Brooke Tampa Bay, accompanied by copies of instructions from the Hon Secretary to the Marshal of East Florida under the several dates of June 13 1839* and July 17, 1840" also the instructions of the Marshal to his Deputy at Tampa dated 29" Nov. 1841." It is unaccountable how the Marshal could have a doubt as to his competency & consequently that of his deputy to act in the premises after the reiterated instructions of the Secretary of War. It cannot be expected, that as long as the persons complained of by Capt. Seawell are not only shielded from the action of the law by the imbecility of the civil officer whose duty it is to enforce it, but thereby encouraged to carry on the nefarious trafic in liquor by which they subsist, any thing like discipline among the troops can be maintained.
I hope most earnestly the Hon' Secretary will perceive the importance of prompt and effectual action on the subject now submitted to him. Similar removals might be urged at nearly all the Military posts in this Territory.
I would respectfully suggest that the Military Reserve at Tampa be surveyed as early as practicable & its boundaries be distinctly marked.
I have the honor to be Sir, Very respectfully Yr. Mr. Obt. Svt.
J. H. WOSE Col 4" Inf. Comg TO THE ADJ. GEN', of the Army Washington C.D.

[Endorsed] 53 N°. 8 H Qrs: M*. Dept No 9 Cedar Keys. Sept 8.
1842.J. H. Vose Col. Com" Forw" comm" from Capt Seawell, in regard to the removal of intruders from Tampa-The subject is important, and the public interest in Florida, would seem to require prompt attention—The Marshal may need fresh instructions—Respectfully laid before the Sec. of War—R. Jones A. G. Sepr. 17. 1842–-Will Col.
Abert furnish a copy of the reservation at Tampa —I think it was
16 miles square? D. Parker” Ans" Sept 22.” 1842 R. Jones [Enclosure:ALS]
Washington Seawell to Philip N. Barbour H"Q" FORT BROOKE (E.F) September 4, 1842.
SIR, In obedience to Col Worth's directions to me as the Cmndg Officer of this post, Mr Olivella, the Dept. Marshall, was requested on the 6' of July last," to remove from this reserve, a Mr Collas, a Citizen, who resides here with his family.—Two other citizens, a Mr Jackson and a M. Warren, the Dept. Marshall was also requested to remove at the same time, and he accordingly notified all of them to leave by the
7th ult.
On my return here from St Augustine on the 23" ult, I found that the order of the Depty Marshall to the above named Citizens had been disregarded; they still residing here, —and on calling on the Depty Marshall, I was informed, that according to his instructions from M’
Sanchez, the Marshall of the Territory, citizens could not be removed from this post or the reserve, except by order of Judge Steel, before whom cause must be shewn, why they should not remain, and that he must not remove them at the mere request of the Cmndg Officer of the post.—A copy of these instructions are herewith enclosed.
The individuals I requested to have removed, are worthless drunkards, and I request that the Cmndg Col will endeavor to have such instructions given to the Marshall as will ensure their immediate removal, and that of all others also, whenever it may be desired by the Cmndg: Officer. I enclose herewith, copies of instructions from the Secretary of War to the Marshall, of the 13th June 1839" and 17"
July 1840."—That of the 13 June 1839, refers particularly to this reserve, and ought of itself, in my opinion, be sufficient authority for

the Marshall to remove and keep off all persons, that the Cmndg:
Officer may not wish to have on it.—If, however, they can not be removed when required by the Cmndg: Officer but in the way only directed by the Marshall in his instructions to his Depty, it will only be a short time before every foot of the reserve will be taken up by citizens, with their whiskey shops in the very centre of the Garrison.
There are many persons who would wish to be as near the post as possible, and I would recommend that a survey be made of the reserve, in order that persons wishing to settle near here may know its limits.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully Your Obdt. Svt.
W. SEAWELL Capt 7 Infy Cmndg: Post TO, LIEUTP. N. BARBOUR 3" Infy. Actg. Asst. Adjt Gnl. My. Dept.
No 9. Cedar Keys (E. F)
[Endorsed] S. 6 Ho Q" Fort Brooke (E.F) September 4". 1842.
W. Seawell Capt 7" Infy Cmndg Post. Reporting the refusal of the Depty Marshall to remove intruders from the Post and reserve. 53.
Col J. H. Wose Sept: 17. 1842 Respectfully laid before the Sec: of War—R. Jones Sept 6/42
[Enclosure:Tr.]
Jose S. Sanchez to Manuel Olivella Translation ST. AUGUSTINE November 29–1841
MY DEAR SIR I have received your letter, which would have been answered ere this, but for Sickness, and other afflications.
I send you herewith enclosed the form of an Oath, for you to make before Judge Steel, as my Deputy, after having made Oath to same, it will be necessary to present it to Judge Bronson for his approval.
Do me the favour, to be most carefull abut executing any order that may be given to you in relation to the Citizens of the post, by the Commanding Officers thereof. As you are a Civil Officer and not a Military One, and cannot legally execute any order without committing yourself or devolving it upon me, when required should Judge Steel find reason for so doing, he will give you the necessary authority to facilitate you, in your proceedings against the parties whom they, the officers wish. Do not forget this instruction, and, envellope me the Oath as soon as you can
(Signed) JOSE S. SANCHEZ
SOR DON MANUEL OLIVELLA
[Endorsed] S. 6. Joseph S. Sanchez, Marshall to Don Manuel Olivella, dated Nov 29" 1841. Capt. Seawell 17. Sept. 1842
563214–62 85

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO JOSIAH H. WOSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Septr. 12" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>COL: J. H. WOSE 4" Infy. Comdg. 9" Dept. Cedar Keys Florida.
SIR; Intelligence has this day reached the War Department that a party of fugitive Creek Indians (fifty) attacked the house of a M. Perkins, near a place called Holmes' Valley, Washington County, W. F. on the morning of the 31" ultimo, and murdered him with all his family, except one child that made its escape. The Indians who committed this outrage are said to be secreted between the Bays of St. Andrews and Choctawhatchee and adjacent swamps.
With a view to afford prompt protection to the part of the country infested by the Indians, as well as to pursue, capture and destroy them, the Secretary of War directs that you select two efficient Companies of Infantry, from the nearest point, with active enterprising officers, well skilled in Indian Warfare, and despatch them forthwith on the duty herein indicated. You will give all the necessary orders and instructions to the officer in command.
The Secretary of War, being anxious to adopt the most effectual means at once to break up, and capture or destroy this band directs that you authorize the officer commanding the detachment, to employ not to exceed forty able bodied, active men, from among the inhabitants of the region, to act as guides and assistants in the Scout, for the period of one month. These volunteers are to equip themselves, (except that they may be furnished with powder & ball)
and are to provide their own horses, subsistence and forage, and will be entitled to the rates of compensation heretofore allowed by law to mounted volunteers.”—The leader of the party will be allowed the pay, rations and forage of a Captain of mounted volunteers.
This auxiliary force will be placed under the orders of the officer commanding the detachment of regular Troops.
The wishes of the men in respect to the selection of their leader, should be consulted, and if there be no particular objection on their part, and the officer in command approves him, Archibald Smith Jr.
of Gaston” County, may be selected.
The compensation to the men and their leader is to be paid in money, at the rates of compensation for subsistence and forage prescribed by Regulations, out of the fund for suppressing Indian

in Florida. Their continuance in the employment will depend on circumstances.
Should any of the citizens employed require subsistence, the same may be furnished from the United States supplies, charging the person receiving, at the rate prescribed by Regulations.
It is desirable that as many of the United States troops detached to this service should be mounted, as the supply of horses will permit.
You are authorized to offer a reward of $100 for every Warrior taken and of $50, for every other Indian and to pay the same out of the fund before mentioned, upon satisfactory proof of its being earned.
The Commanding Officer of the Detachment will be directed to report in duplicate all his movements, one copy to the Adjutant General's Office, direct, and the other, of course, to you.
For the present, and until further directions, West Florida is separated from the 1" Military Department, and assigned to the
9" or temporary Department in Florida.”
I am sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>September 13. 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON J. C. SPENCER Secy of War.
SIR. Being about to issue instructions to the Surveyor General of Florida for immediate institution of proceedings necessary to effect the public surveys of lands in those portions of the Peninsula of East Florida, where settlements exist or are most likely to be commenced under the late Act of Congress “to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida”,”
I beg leave to enquire whether in case the Surveyor General should be of opinion that the exigency so requires, it will suit the convenience of the government to afford military protection to the Surveyor while engaged in the field of their operations.
It is very probable that the Surveyor General will have to organize three if not four parties of Surveyors to be engaged at the same time in fields of duty remote from each other—In such event it may be found necessary to afford protection to each party.
This communication is made on the suggestion of M Levy the Delegate from the Territory and it would be highly desirable that

this Office should be advised in the premises at an early day in advance of the proposed instruction to the Surveyor General aforesaid.
I have the honor to be Sir, With great respect Your Ob" Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Septr. 15" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>T. W. BLAKE Esq Comm” Ld. Office Washington.
SIR; Your letter of the 13" instant to the Secretary of War, requesting a military escort for the protection of the Surveyors while engaged in field operations in Florida, has been received; and in reply, I am desired to say, it is not believed at this time, that there is the least danger to be apprehended from the Indians in that part of Florida about to be surveyed, and that a guard for the protection of the Surveyors, is therefore considered altogether unnecessary. Should the surveying parties however, when about to commence their field operations, perceive any grounds of real danger, contrary to all expectations,—on application to the Commanding Officer in Florida, a small guard for each party would be furnished.—
I am sir, &c R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>GEN LAND OFFICE Sept. 19. 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HON J. C. SPENCER Sec. of War.
SIR By the third section of the Act of Congress, entitled “An Act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida”, approved 4" August 1842;
it is enacted, “That no right or donation shall be acquired under this Act, within two miles of any permanent Military post of the United States, established and garrisoned at the time such settlement and residence was commenced”, It therefore becomes necessary in order to communicate the proper instructions to the land Officers and the Surveyor General for carrying out the above provisions of the law, that this Office should be furnished with a list of all the permanent Military posts in the peninsula South of the line specified in the Act, to wit, the line which divides townships nine and ten South, likewise a separate list of such as are only considered temporary, which I
respectfully request your direction to have done as early as convenient

so that the information may be sent with the instructions already prepared in this Office."
I am Sir Very respy Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Reg. and Rec., Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>September 20, 1842</place-time>
<docbody>REG" OF L. O. S." Augustine East Florida SIR, By the present mail you will receive three packages, marked A. B. & C, containing each a number of copies of the enclosed letter of instructions from this Office bearing date 25" Ult” addressed to Registers of the land Offices at S" Augustine and Newnansville," in order to carry into effect the Act of Congress approved on 4" Ult, entitled “An Act for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida”—
There are also transmitted by the present mail, two other packages marked D & E—One of which contains the “Docket of Permits”, described on the fifth page of the letter of instructions above alluded to.—and the other contains a supply of the same in detached sheets, to be used for the “certified transcripts” which you will perceive are to be furnished monthly to this Office.
Packages marked F. G. H., contain blank forms for Permits,—
and those marked I. K. L. blank forms for Notices—As the letter of instructions sets forth the mode in which the notice is to be filled up, it will be proper that a copy of the printed letter be furnished to each applicant.
Annexed to the letter of instructions you will find a copy of the
“Act to establish an additional Land Office in Florida”—the District for which is to be called the Alachua land District and the Land Office to be located at the town of Newnansville "—
Enclosed is a diagram shewing the boundaries of the New Land District and also the line dividing townships numbers nine and ten South.—South of which line the settlements are authorized to be made under the provisions of the Act of 4" Ult.

On receipt hereof you are requested forthwith to peruse the letter of instructions, and advise this Office of your having so done,—and also acknowledge the receipt of the documents transmitted.
One the 17" inst, a letter was addressed to you * authorizing the delivery of the plats of the townships lying within the limits of the new land District, (so far as they have been received at your Office)
to the Register of the land office for the new District of Alachua."
I am very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO JOSIAH H. VOSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Septr. 22° 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>COL: J. H. WOSE4" Infy. Comdg. 9" Dept. Cedar Keys, F.
SIR; Your communication of the 8* instant with enclosures,”
on the subject of the removal of intruders from the military reservation at Fort Brooke, Florida, has been received and laid before the Secretary of War.
It appears from Captain Seawell's Report, that the Deputy Marshal at Tampa Bay will not remove intruders when requested so to do by the Commanding Officer, unless he be instructed in each case, by the County Judge, before whom cause must be shown why they should not remain. This is strange indeed, the County Judge having nothing to do with the subject whatever. The questions to be answered are, —Is the land around the Fort public property, and has it been reserved for national, or military purposes? And is the individual when ejectment is demanded by the United States Officer, a resident within such military reservation? These questions answered in the affirmative, the Marshal, or his Deputy, under the positive instructions from the President, is left without discretion and must accordingly proceed to remove the intruder from the public domain.
The Act of March 34 1807, entitled an “Act to prevent settlements being made on lands ceded to the United States until authorized by law,” gives the President power to remove all intruders on the public lands, and points out the mode in which it shall be done.
This course has been pursued, and the United States Marshal for

the district of East Florida, Joseph S. Sanchez, was specially directed by letter, dated June 13" 1839,” and again July 17* 1840,” to remove all intruders from the lands around the military posts in Florida—
No additional instructions are therefore necessary, and if the Deputy at Tampa Bay still refuses to remove the intruders as requested by the Commanding Officer, complaint should be made to the Marshal of the non-compliance and neglect of duty on the part of his Deputy, and if he fail to take the necessary steps to carry out the instructions of the President, the fact should be officially reported, when, no doubt, the Executive, in such case, would find some other person, more willing, or able, to execute his instructions and the laws.
It is desirable that the intruders should be removed by means of the civil authorities, as this prevents all clamor against the military, which is most surely to be raised, regardless of the propriety of the Military action, and legality of the procedure. But, if the object cannot be effected in this way, other means must be resorted to.
For your information and that of the Commanding Officer of Fort Brooke, I enclose herewith an authentic copy of the reservation of sixteen miles square around that post which was set apart for military purposes by President Jackson, December 10" 1830.
A copy of this communication (not of the plat) will be forwarded to Captain Seawell, (or Commanding Officer) at Tampa Bay, but it is necessary that you take requisite measures, and give the proper instructions, in conformity therewith.”—
I am Sir, &c, R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk.16]</source>

stating that Forts Micanopy, Waccassassa,” & Fanning,” are those now occupied for temporary purposes.
In reply I have to state that the Land Officers & the Surveyor General will be instructed accordingly to respect the three first mentioned posts in permitting or surveying settlements made under the late law.
I have also to state for the information of the Department, that it appears from the files of this office, that reservations have been formally made by the President, at Forts Shannon & Brooke; also at the “Cedar Keys”; (another point mentioned in the Adjutant General's Report) & that copies of the papers connected with these reservations are preparing at this office to be transmitted to the Bureau of Top Engineers, under the printed circular of the Adjutant General of the 1* inst, but that no such reservation appears to have been ordered at Fort King, which is situated in the contemplated new surveys.
I would therefore respectfully suggest, that immediate steps be taken by the Department, to procure an order from the President for the reservation at Fort King of four miles square (that being about the quantity allowed by the armed occupation act) taking the Fort as a centre, by lines running to the cardinal points of the compass; & at the same time, as suggested in the letter from your Department, for the reservation of such Islands near the coast for military purposes, as the Department may select & designate on the printed map: on receipt of all which at this office, the necessary instructions will be communicated without delay.”
I am Sir very respectfully Your obdt servt THO H BLAKE Comm"
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>General Land Office Sep: 24, 1842</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. Conway Esq. S. G. Tallahassee Flo.
Sir. I herewith enclose five printed copies of my instructions of the
25" Ult” to the Registers and Receivers at S*Augustine & Newnansville Florida Territory,” under the Act of Congress of the 4” August

Explai ZX. black *-* ***.*.*.


1842, entitled, “An Act for the Armed occupation and Settlement of the unsettled “part of the Peninsula of Florida;” and have to call your attention to the new surveys necessary to carry the same into effect and for other purposes.”
It is desirable that the surveys should be so extended as to embrace those points where it is probable the settlements will be formed, &
the lands will be wanted for market.
The red lines on the enclosed printed map of the peninsula published by the War Department, have been laid down so as to include most of these points, according to the best information in this Office, and I
have to request that you will without delay contract for the survey thereof, and for the subdivisions into Sections of five full townships to be selected in each of the blocks designated on the Map by the broad pink line, and that you will transmit the duplicates or copies of the Contracts and Bonds to this Office without delay.
Great care should be taken in running & marking the standard Meridian line K. L. laid down on the Map, near Fort King, and the standard parallels C. D. E. F. which if correctly surveyed, will serve to limit any irregularities in the intermediate surveys, and prove useful checks on the present and future field operations of your Deputies.
For the Survey of these lines, requiring more skill and attention, a higher price might be allowed than for section lines, provided however, that the average price given in all the Contracts, must not exceed the maximum price of four dollars a mile allowed by existing laws for surveying the public lands.
The townships to be subdivided have not been particularly designated on the Map, in order that you may select them upon information to be derived from the Deputies, whilst the surveys of the standard and exterior Township lines are progressing in the field, and from the Registers and Receivers, with whom you are requested to confer.
The accompanying printed instructions require the Land Officers to transmit to your Office from time to time the notices & Diagrams upon which permits of settlement under the law are made. These will aid you in selecting the townships to be first subdivided, and if received in time will enable you to have each settlement surveyed simultaneously with the section lines.
The settlements should, whenever practicable, conform to the Section lines, they should likewise be represented on the Township Maps by a distinctive color, say a pink shade, with the name of the Applicant and the number of his notice written thereon.
As the permits cannot interfere with such groves of live Oak and Red Cedar timber abounding on the public lands, as the proper De-

partment shall cause to be selected and set apart for Naval purposes
(see page 4, accompanying instructions,) you will be particular in requiring your Deputies to note in their field Books where those timbers exist, and you will cause them to be carefully and conspicuously designated on the Township Maps.
In addition to the evidence on file in your Office, you will procure from the Land Officers and the keeper of the public Archives at S*
Augustine, all necessary information of the boundaries of the confirmed and such unconfirmed private claims, as have been duly filed with the Commissioners, the former of which you will have surveyed and laid down on the plats in connection with the section lines, and the latter, where they have been duly filed before any board of United States Commissioners, you will of course not have surveyed, but cause them to be laid down on the plats, shewing their connections, as near as may be, by dotted lines, with the names of the claimants, the numbers of the claims, and the dates of the reports embracing them, in order to protect them from sale or settlement until final action shall be had thereon.
For all necessary details as to the mode of executing your contract
&°, you are referred to the Circular of instructions from this Office to the Surveyor General of the 28* July 1831; (see Comp: Laws & Instructions, Part II. page 915;*) to the Circular of instructions to your predecessor of the 5" August 1839,” for limiting the size of the Contracts; and to the instructions modifying the same of the 26"
January 1841.”—And you are hereby particularly charged not to employ any person a Deputy Surveyor, in whose capacity and moral integrity you have not the fullest confidence, and to require your Deputies to employ men of good moral character only, as chain-carriers, & assistants, so that you may certify without hesitation and on your own Official responsibility to the correctness of their returns, after applying all the tests in your power.
In a letter from the adjutant General of the War Department of the
15" inst.” in reply to a Communication to the Hon: Secretary of War,” this Office is advised, that it is believed the Deputies need apprehend no danger from the Indians, but that should it be at any time necessary on application to the Officer in command in Florida, which you will make accordingly, a small guard for each Corps will be

furnished. I likewise herewith transmit for your information a Copy of the adjutant General's Report to the Secretary of War of the 20"
inst.” specifying the Military posts in the peninsula of Florida, which are now considered permanent, & which you will perceive are reserved from Settlement by the 3" Section of the Act of 4th August.” These Posts, four in number, have been designated on the Map by drawing a green circle around each.
The inclosed paper marked A, is an estimate of the number of miles
& cost of the Surveying herein authorized, which must not exceed
$20,000, Should it be found necessary or advisable to make any changes in the field of Operations, by substituting other lands, you will please to Confer with this office on the subject.”
I am very respy Your Ob" St THO: H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO ROBERT J. HACKLEY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Reg. and Rec. Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>GEN. LAND OFFICE Sept. 24. 1842</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER &c Tallahassee Florida SIR, You will perceive on referring to the accompanying Diagram that the provisions of the Act of Congress, approved on the 4" Ult"
“for the Armed occupation and settlement of the peninsula of Florida”
have relation, in your District, to that comparitively small triangular portion of Country lying South of the line dividing townships nine and ten, and West of the Suwannee river.
Transmitted herewith is a Copy of a letter of instruction addressed to the Registers of the Land Offices at S*Augustine and Newnansville, dated 25" Ult” which will be considered by you as designed also for your government should there be any applications to settle under the provisions of the Act aforesaid, within the portion of Country above alluded to—
You will also receive four packages marked A. B. C & D,-of which A. contains a number of copies of the printed letter of the 25"
Ult”—B contains the form of a Docket of permits, in Sheets, -a suitable number of which you will stitch together to form the Record to be kept in your Office,—leaving a portion for monthly returns to be rendered to this Office shewing your operations.

C & D. contain blanks for “Notices” and “permits”.—The receipt of all which you will be pleased to acknowledge.
I am very respy Sir Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>JOSIAH H. VOSE TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 66:LS]</source>
<place-time>NO 17 Head Qrs. My Dep. No 9. CEDAR KEYS Sep 26. 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I had the honor to receive on the 22" your letter of instructions of the 12" inst," at which time the runners previously despatched to the Ocklocknee country & reported in my communication of the
15" " had not returned. They returned yesterday, and I regret to report a failure. They found very recent signs of their friends &
would have continued the search but for the arrival of the boat at the appointed time for them to return. They are anxious to go again, and I shall indulge them in a few days. The Ocklocknee people are represented as being destitute of ammunition & are doubtless in a condition of wretchedness; they have no fixed abode & no means of subsistence except what the particular locality at which they may happen to be affords, a doubt therefore cannot reasonably be entertained that if the intelligence of peace coupled with the promise of the President that they may remain in Florida within the prescribed limits can be conveyed to them, they will unhesitatingly accept the terms & forthwith join their friends in the south. The Creeks of Octiarchee's band, who are now ready to comply with the terms offered them, have been promised in every interview that the U.S. troops should not make another hostile movement unless the Indians should fail to fulfil the conditions of the treaty. Since the first interview at this place between Brig. Gen' Worth and Tiger-tail, several murders have been committed by straggling Indians who knew nothing of the armistice, & the Chiefs have appeared anxious to call in these men so as to put a stop to all atrocities on their part, & thus give no cause for a rupture on the part of the whites.” I have in every such instance assured them that if they would continue firm in purpose & obey the instructions of their “Great Father”, those isolated acts of their young men, committed in ignorance of a cession of hostilities, should

not interrupt our friendly relations. Well Sir, they have so far fulfilled, though slowly, every promise they have made & it was with no less astonishment than mortification that I suddenly found myself instructed by direction of the Secretary of War to forfeit every pledge I had made to the Indians & pursue a course which in the present state of affairs would in my opinion not only disperse those assembled, under the proclamation for peace, but incite the entire Indian population to acts of retalliation & revenge, inevitably tending to reproduce a state of War. After much reflection upon the subject, I have determined, in view of all the circumstances which surround me, and under the most unprejudiced conviction that it will be for the good of the country, to suspend the execution of the Secretary's instructions of the 12" until every effort on my part to find, by the aid of Indian runners, the band against whom the operations are to be directed, shall have failed. The commander of the Western District will be instructed to concentrate the force intended for this service, at Fort Stansbury,” & have them in readiness to move as rapidly as possible to the theatre of action at a moments warning. Before the service could be entered on, however, it would be necessary to purchase horses and equipments for mounting a part of the detachment, (the number in view of economy & cessation of hostilities having been reduced throughout the Department, to the standard of a peace establishment.) But if under the instructions he has received from the Department of War, one of the companies should have been put in march before my wishes shall reach him, which I do not apprehend, he will be directed to detach another, and proceed himself to the scene of the outrage, and without delay organize the force as directed and carry out the wishes of the Secretary of War. Lt. Col° Hitchcock is expected by the middle of October,-Capt. Morris who is an active Officer & now commanding the Western District will then be available for the command of the detachment. Capt. Clark now in command of the Regiment is in such bad health as to be totally unfit for any active service.
So long a time has elapsed since the murder, that no evil can possibly result from a further delay of two or three weeks in which time I shall hope to have found & pacified, if not brought in, the whole band West of Ocklocknee. In that time too, there will be a Steamer in service on which I can rely for the transport of the detachment to a suitable point on the coast from which to direct the operations. At present I have no boat en which can be safely trusted at sea. I beg leave to remark, as my belief, that no possible benefit will result from a scout in West Florida, I am satisfied there are

but very few Indians in that direction, & those of such a roving character, having no permanent or fixed abode, that an expedition against them, especially on foot, must be a failure.
I shall anxiously await further instructions from your Office, and hope my exercise of discretion in the premises, based as it is on a desire to promote the interests of the country, will not be construed into disobedience of Orders. Enclosed I transmit copy of my instructions to the Commander of the Western District.*
Very Respectfully Your obt. Servt.
J. H. VOSE Col 4th Inf. Com—
THE ADJ' GENERAL of the Army Head quarters Washington City.
[Endorsed] 66. 17. He qrs: Dept: No 9 Cedar Keys 26 Sep. 42
Col: J H. Vose Commg. Reports receipt of letter 12" inst: on the 22"
at which time the runners sent out by him to the Ochlocknee Country, -Suggests a suspension of the execution of the instructions.
Encloses copy of his instructions to the Comm” officer of the Western Dist: Oct: 5. 1842 Respectfully submitted to the Sec. of War, It is hoped that the delay of the execution of the instructions of the
12" of September, for the reasons stated, may be approved—
R. Jones Ag ansd—the 6" RG *
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE Flo. Sept 28th 1842–</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In haste I will report to you in part, what has transpired since my letter of the 23" Inst."
Enclosed you will receive a copy of my seizure " which I beg you will lay before the Attorney General of the United States, to inform me if it is not in due form according to the Authority invested in me to preserve and protect the timber and wood on public lands in East Florida I will further show you by the Enclosed copy of a notice of a postponement of the Sale of a lot of logs which I did seize and advertised for sale, the above named Notice will plainly show that Palmer &
Ferris are not satisfied by trespassing themselves but do assist and encourage others in doing the same.
I will further State that I find it very difficult to get justice done to Government in some of the most provoking cases, I applied to

Judge Doggett Judge of the County Court, and likewise acting in the Capacity of a Custom House Officer in this place, for a warrant to arrest some of those trespassers for rioting and combining to resist my authority. He said he could not give me the warrant on the ground as he was acting as attorney at Law to defend those very men who had committed this trespass and riot. But thank fortune there are some men can be found in this place who are willing to see Government righted, I applied to Mr. Gutterson formerly Deputy Marshal under Col. Sanchez, he comes forward fearlessly and boldly and render all assistance in his power, and says such conduct must be put down, he is a magistrate.
I have got some others duties to perform against some men who have been heavily trespassing upon public lands, and no doubt from the information I received, I will be met and opposed by fire arms, this will not timidate me I will perform my duty so long as I can walk, when I cannot walk I will crawl to the spot. I am determined to put a stop to such frauds upon Government, or I'll loose my life in the attempt. I got up out of a sick bed to attend to the duties above mentioned, In the mean time I was under the Doctors care and he had given me 25 grains of Calomel a few hours previous, I
am now in good health.”
I remain Your Ob" Sev" With respect H. L. THISTLE
Agt for the preservation of timber on public lands in East Florida To A PUPSHER Secretary of the Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle Sept 28/42 file T. 127 Oct. 5, Call JOSIAH H. WOSE TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 70:LS]</source>
<place-time>N° 20 Head Qrs: Mily. Dept No 9 CEDAR KEYs Septr 29" 1842</place-time>
SIR. I now have the honor to report the determination of the Creeks to go to the country assigned them in Florida, early in the next moon. Octiarchee " left here this morning—Tiger tail is dangerously ill, which I fear has been of serious detriment to the cause of emigration. I had been assured that he & his followers would go to Arkansas, but am now informed of their intention to join Octiarchee—Tiger tail should he recover will emigrate & it

is possible his influence may yet cause his small band to adhere to their original design.
Passacca " a man of note (brother of Cloud ") is here from Tampa
& informs me that Bowlegs * & Fush hadjo,” representatives of the southern Indians in the first council with General Worth, had violated all their promises & have been active in their efforts to prevent any emigration from that quarter. They failed to distribute the presents (Tobacco &c) sent their people by the General & were studious to avoid discovering to them the tempting offers made under authority from the President to all who would go to Arkansas.
However Passacca explained to those who came to Tampa the terms and aided by the judicious management of Capt. Seawell I hope to get a respectable party from the Cypress for the West.
In all the interviews with the Indians they have been told both by my predecessor and myself, that the President gave them a choice between the portion of this Territory assigned them and Arkansas
& that he was indifferent to their selection. It is therefore not surprising that but few are disposed to emigrate attached as they must be to Florida & having at hand without labor all the means and facilities of subsistence.
In a few days I shall despatch friendly runners to the Ocklocknee on another search for their people. Four were sent this morning to look for the family supposed to be on the Homasassa "to whom is conceded the authorship of the murder at Chocochattee.
I regret to report that information is every day coming to me of the existence of a spirit of implacable resentment towards the Indians in the vagabond class of the citizens of this Territory manifesting itself by threats to assemble in large bodies and make War upon the Indians.
It is to be observed in this connection that during the active campaigns of the last 18 months and when the Indians were constantly murdering and plundering the citizens, not a man evinced a disposition to defend even his own fireside,--as a striking illustration of this fact witness the affair at Mandarin,-but now that the Indians are innoxious (such as have heard explained the terms of the treaty)
a most unaccountable desire for the toils and glory of the field appears suddenly [to be manifested by] * hatching in the adverse party.
The Department is aware that I have no authority to control the

movement of citizens, and in the event of their interference the delicacy of my situation is equally apparent. I have to day issued instructions to the Commanding Officers of posts on the line from Fort Fanning to Fort King, to detach each a discreet Officer instructed to explain to the people generally the inevitable disaster which must attend their hostile demonstrations. This is all I can do under existing circumstances to arrest them.
I am Sir Very Respectfully Yr. Obt Servt J. H. VoSE Col 4" Inf. Cong THE ADJ" GENERAL of the Army Head Quarters Washington
[Endorsed] No 20 H* Qrs. 9th My Dept Cedar Keys Sept 29/1842
J.H. Wose. Col” Com" State of negotiations with the indians—disposition of some of the citizens towards them &c. &c.—Respectfully submitted to the Sec: of War—R. Jones [Would not the shameful interference of the white men, as herein reported, require some exective action—some public admonition and warning, against such lawless & selfish mock-war spirit—?]" R.J. Ans" Oct 15, 1842 "
R.J. To be laid before the General on his return here, as must also, all Col. W” communications relative to his operations, which have been recd in his absence—with the answers thereto-R. Jones Ag Oct 15 (Oct 27") Col Wose should be instructed that it is our first duty to fulfill the engagements we have made with the Indians, and to protect them in their efforts to fulfill the obligations on their part.
He must therefore at all hazards defend and protect those Indians who are preparing to emigrate or to go within the lines assigned to them and who have not committed any hostilities since the amnesty was proclaimed. If any citizens of Alachua or others attack such Indians, he must repel such attack by force, and he will cause it to be known that such will be his course. He is already instructed to furnish a sufficient escort to guard any Indians going thro' the country
—Have a copy of this letter made for me—
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX.]</source>
<place-time>Sept. 30. 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. of Florida at Stafford C. H. V."
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 28" inst,” in reply to my letter to you of the 26" inst,"

and requesting the indulgence of this Office to delay your return to Florida until the 6" or 7" proximo;—stating that you are anxious to confer personally with me on several topics connected with the public interest; that the preliminary arrangements for carrying the late instructions for new surveys into effect, can be made here as well as at your Office; and that you have made arrangements with the Clerk in your Office to have your public accounts transmitted to you where you now are, for signature but expressing your entire readiness to depart instanter if advised to do so.
In reply I have to state, that with every disposition to consult your personal convenience in this matter, your request is only granted on condition that you shall be enabled to make such arrangements as not to compromise the public interest, or delay the immediate prosecution of the surveys just ordered, which you state can be done.
I herewith transmit a copy of my circular of instructions of the 26"
inst," addressed to you at Tallahassee, calling for the usual annual report & estimates of your Office, which will require your immediate attention.—By the mail of monday next a copy of my instructions of the same date for new surveys" and of the map, will be transmitted you in order that you may be better enabled to make the preliminary arrangements of which you write.”
I am Sir Very respy Your Obt Serv'
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>GEN LAND OFFICE Octr 4th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER St Augustine E. Florida SIR, Your letter of 25" Ult” has just been received *—The necessary instructions under the late Act of Congress providing for the armed occupation and settlement of Florida, were forwarded to you On 20" Ult” ” and I trust have been received ere this date—
Transmitted herewith is a package containing a number of copies of the “Madisonian,” in which is inserted the instructions referred to–These newspapers you may find convenient for distribution

You are requested to advise this office of any additional supplies of the forms &c, connected with this subject which may be required for the use of your Office.
I am very respy Sir Your Ob" St THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO JOSIAH H. VOSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office WASHINGTON, Oct. 6, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>COL. J. H. WOSE 4" Inf Comdg. 9" Dept.
SIR: Your several communications on the subject of your command and the affairs in Florida have been received, and laid before the Secretary of War.
In reply to your letter of the 24" ulto." reporting the state of negotiations with the Indians I am directed by the Secretary to say, he doubts not that you will take the most efficient measures to prevent any attacks on the Indians going south by the whites which you seem to apprehend; and if the grounds for these apprehensions continue, no pacific Indians should be permitted to travel to the south except under a suitable escort of troops commanded by an officer.
In considering your dispatch of the 26"" relative to the special instructions of the Department of the 12" of September," the Secretary of War does not perceive any reasonable ground either for the astonishment or mortification which you have expressed on the receipt of those instructions. The fugitive Creeks in West Florida had been quiet for a long time, and they seem to have chosen the opportunity to gratify their ferocity when there was the least danger of resistence or retaliation to be apprehended. When the intelligence of the murder of Mr. Perkins' family was received it was the determination of the Department that the most prompt & vigorous measures should be taken to chastise these Indians. It was not supposed nor is it now understood that any negotiations had been opened with these particular Indians—indeed your letter shews the contrary, for up to the time of its date they were not aware of what had been proposed by General Worth [A.]." There was therefore, no breach of

faith in punishing them for these outrages. Nor was it known at the Department at the date of the Special instructions, that you had sent any agents to communicate with these Indians. I may add then that there was no intended interference whatever with your arrangements, and it is regretted that these circumstances had not been duly considered at the time, which doubtless would have saved you from feeling any thing like astonishment or mortification. It should be borne in mind, too, that you had made no pledges to these fugitive Creeks, and therefore could not be called on to violate any."
Under the circumstances of the case, your delay in executing the special instructions of the 12" of September is sanctioned by the Department. The further delay of two or three weeks as you suggest meets the approbation of the Secretary of War; but at the expiration of that period, if these Indians do not come in, or give the most satisfactory evidence of their readiness to do so, then the said special instructions must be promptly executed.
In reference to the want of supplies to which you advert, I learn from the Commissary General that the deficiency was owing to the wreck of a vessel with provisions shipped at Baltimore the 11" of August, and the condemnation of stores which had been received from the Navy at Cedar Keys. On the 9" of September a second shipment was made from Baltimore which must have arrived at Cedar Keys by the 30" ult. unless ship-wrecked. Two other shipments of Stores have been made from New York to Florida, on the 20" & 30" of September. Should your supplies and means of transportation fall short of the demand of the service as you seem to apprehend in your letter of the 24" (which however is not anticipated,) you will of course provide whatever may be necessary. And should you find yourself straitened, and you deem it useful to engage guides and assistants to aid the operations of the troops against the Indians and to protect the inhabitants of Florida, you are authorized to do so from time to time, in the manner pointed out in the special instructions of the 12" of September; but the number will not exceed one hundred men in the whole, to be employed for such time as may be necessary, not exceeding two months for any one period of service. Their compensation to be at the rates specified in the instructions referred to, and to be taken

from the general fund appropriated for the suppression of hostilities in Florida.70
I am Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Genl.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO JOSIAH. H. WOSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office WASHINGTON, Oct. 15, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>CoL" J. H. VoSE 4th Inf. Comdg 9th Dept Cedar Keys Fla.
SIR: Your communication of September 29" " was yesterday received and submitted to the Secretary of War.
The Secretary hears with much regret that any portion of the citizens of Florida (those it is supposed who reside near the borders of that part of the Territory formerly belonging to the Seminoles), now that peace has been proclaimed and with every reasonable hope of its continuance, manifest and express a disposition to renew, of themselves, hostilities against the few remaining Indians, who, from your statement, appear disposed in good faith, to comply with their recent engagements, and are actually moving down the peninsula to the tract of land assigned, which is beyond the most advanced settlements south.—This manifestation of feeling of hostility, so pernicious to the public interest and so unworthy the white settler in the present state of affairs, the Secretary hopes will soon pass off, and that they will remain quiet at their homes and throw no obstacle in the way of the Government in carrying out the peaceable plans now in due course of execution. If however the reverse unhapily be the case, our first duty is to fulfil the engagements which have been made with the Indians and to protect them in their efforts to comply with the obligations on their part. The Secretary of War, after consultation with the President, therefore directs that at all hazards you must defend

and protect the Indians who are preparing to emigrate or to go within the lines, south, assigned to them, and who have not committed any hostilities since the amnesty was proclaimed: If any citizens of Florida, or others attack such unoffending Indians, you must repel such attack force by force; and it is the further direction of the Secretary, that you will cause it to be known that such will be your course.
It is hoped that your efforts to negociate with the Indians on the Ocklockonee may prove successful, and that all yet out may soon pass within the limits assigned them, when it will be comparatively easy to carry on negotiations with them.”
I am, Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen’l.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST AUGUSTINE Octor 15" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>MY DEAR SIR I thank you for your kind wishes as expressed in your letter of 21" Int,” and would not now troble you but for the interest your department takes in the preservation of the live oak and other ship timber in Florida.
I understand and have no reason to question the fact, that parties are forming in the North, under the pretence as settling in this country, & under the armed occupation law to take out the permits for lands in order, to cut and ship off the live oak, and other valuable ship timber, and then abandon the lands—
No settler, has any legal right to his land, untill he resided on it five years, and cannot untill he has complied with the conditions of the law, sell and dispose of its valuable timber, as an artile of trade—
If some order is not at once taken on this subject, the most valuable timber will be cut & shiped out of this country—
The line designated, south of which permits are to be granted to actual settlers—will cross from East Florida over the Suwannee River taking in the finest live oak white, oak & red ceeder, in Florida, by looking at the map you will see the line passes beyond Dead Mans bay, west of the Suwannee river. This tract of country, is intirely unsettled, and if any a person is not their to proect the timber, the best will be taken off before March next—This tract of country, between the Suwannee & dead mans bay, has the most valuable ship

timber that is to found on the whole coast of Florida. The country is low, wet and with the exception of a few spots not fit for cultivation, but excellent for live oak & red ceeder This information is of interest to the government and I feel it a duty to make you this communication ”
I am with much respect & esteem Yours &c Wm P. DUVAL
HON" A. P. UPSHUR Secretary of the Navy—
[Addressed] Hon" A. P. Upshur Secretary of the Navy Washington City [Postmarked] St. Augustine Fla. Oct 15 Free
[Endorsed] Duval Oct 15, 1842 file with other communications relative to live oak. D 197 Oct 24 Cal **
</docbody>
<dochead>FRANCIS BRINLEY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury Oct 18. 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR In the absence of the Solicitor of the Treasury, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the letter of H. L. Thistle to the Secretary of the Navy, dated the 13" Ultimo,” which with the accompanying copies of letters from Thistle to Mess: Palmer and Ferris,"
was referred to this office, and respectfully report, that whenever the
“agent for the preservation of timber and wood on public lands in Florida” makes complaint to the District Attorney against an individual for cutting live oak &" on public lands it is not the duty, of the person so charged, to prove that he is not guilty of trespassing upon the public lands by exhibiting his title, before the Agent shall have introduced evidence to prove that the cutting was upon the public lands. In other words, the agent must make out the case affirmatively by proof–his oath is not sufficient to throw upon a respondent the proof of his title. As M." Thistle, argues, it may be
“easy for him to show his own lines;” but facility is not to be transmuted into legal obligation.
The act of 3rd March 1827.77 Section 3rd authorises the President to take proper measures to preserve the live oak timber growing on the lands of the United States, and to reserve from sale such lands belonging to the United States, as may be found to contain live oak, or

other timber, in sufficient quantity to render the same valuable for Naval purposes.
Whenever timber shall be cut on those public lands which have been reserved for the purpose of furnishing a supply of live oak and red cedar timber for the Navy, it becomes the duty of the said Agent, of the officers of the Customs, and of the land officers, to cause prosecutions to be seasonably instituted against all persons known to be guilty of depredations on, or injuries to the live oak growing on such lands. This general remark, covers all the points of his letter on the subject of depredation. If the lands be reserved, and the timber be cut, his duty to prosecute at once attaches—and he must make out his case affirmatively. If the lands have not been reserved, I see nothing which prevents an individual from settling on lands on which there is live oak &" under the act of 4" August 1842. if he comply with its requisitions, undesirable as it may be to the government.
The papers are herewith returned.”
Very Respy Your Obt Serv"
FRANCIS BRINLEY Law Clerk To HON: A. P. UPSHUR Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Solicitor of Treasury Oct 18/42 file S. 265 Oct 21 Call.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO ASA A. STEWART</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book N–I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT October 21" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>P.M. Alligator Columbia Co. Fl. Ty.
You are requested to transmit to this Department either the originals or certified copies of such letters as may have been received by yourself or Jesse Carter, Esq. the Contractor on Route N° 2456, from William W. Tyler, Esq. Agent of the Department & late Acting Postmaster at Tallahassee, upon the subject of the supposed depredation upon the mail in June last, between Columbus and Mineral Spring, Fl. Ty."
C.A.W.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING POSTMASTER GENERAL  TO JOHN GORRIE</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book N-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT October 26th 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>P.M. Appalachicola Fl. Ty.
Your office is a “Draft Office”" and will so continue until further notice.
At the end of each quarter you will ascertain without delay, the amount due the Department from your office, for the quarter just ended, and report it forthwith to the Postmaster General.
In your first report you will state also the balance due by you for previous quarters; but in all future reports you will omit that item.
The quarterly reports hereby required must not be made with your quarterly accounts, but must be sent in a separate letter addressed to the Postmaster General, and must not be connected with any other matter or communication whatever.
Postmasters are not permitted to use or loan out any of the moneys belonging to the Department, but must keep them always on hand to meet its drafts.
A failure to pay the rightful drafts of the Department is considered good cause for the instant removal and prosecution of the Postmaster.”
S.R.H. Acting P.M. Genl.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS)</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor Genl. TALLAHASSEE Oct 27" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR/ I herewith hand you my Salary accounts for the 3" Quarter of the present year ending 30" Sep" last, with accompanying vouchers—
Draft N° 1 is for my own Salary due on the day above named, which having been already received by me in person is accordingly Peeeived

endorsed & credited. Draft N° 2, is for the Salary of my Clerk during the same period & for which he has forwarded his receipt.”
You will oblige me by drawing upon the Receiver of Public Monies in Tallahassee, in my favor, for the amt.
I beg leave to request in connection with this subject that you will have placed to my credit with the Receiver here or at any other convenient point an amount sufficient to cover the necessary & incidental expenses of my office for the two past Quarters & as far in anticipation of future expenditures of a similar character as may be deemed proper
& in accordance with usage. These embrace office rent, fuel, stationary, servant's hire etc. This last Item I would remark was omitted thro' inadvertence, in our estimates made up & forwarded upon the 23” ins' The am' asked for I leave wholly at the discretion of the Department. But would suggest that from $500 to $1,000.
would enable me to meet the demands as they occur & save the troubles of future application for some considerable time to come.
I avail myself of this opportunity to say that I am & have been using the most energetic exertions towards the organization of my Surveying corps—& in preparing them for the Field. I have been under the necessity of bringing several Gentlemen from a distance.
This with other essential preliminaries both on their part & ours has unavoidably produced delay. The Surveyor who will run the Standard lines, & who from his long experience & thorough knowledge of his duties is deemed well qualified, is making vigorous efforts to set off for his Field of operation by the last of the present month. He will of course have to go in advance of the other Surveyors who are expected to follow about the 15" prox: or earlier if practicable. There seems to be no doubt that a military escort will be required for the protection of each Surveying squad.
I have the honor to be Very Resp” Yr Obt Svt.
V.Y.CONWAY Surv' Gen.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 27 Oct 1842 W.Y. Conway Surf Gl Transmits his salary a/c & vouchers for 3" q’r of 1842, asks that an amount from $500 to $1000 be placed at Tallahassee to his credit, to pay the incidental expenses of his office. States that he is using every exertion to organize an effective surveying corps. Answered Nov 9th 1842 * W.T.S. Made requisition same day. $1000 Gen.
App"—Salary accts were paid see Com" letter 20th Oct. 1842.” 7 Nov
1842.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO JOSIAH. H. VOSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office WASHINGTON, Oct. 31, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>COL” J. H. Vose, or Comdg. Officer of Army of Fla. Cedar Keys Fla.
SIR: Your communication of 20" inst.” in reply to the letter from this office of the 6",” has been submitted to the Secretary of War, who instructs me to say that you still seem not to apprehend fully the special instructions of September 12" * The Secretary deems it immaterial what the attitude of the Creeks referred to by you may be, and it is his directions, that if they do not accept the terms of pacification and consent immediately to remove, they must be treated as hostiles. The lives of the inhabitants of the Territory must not be exposed to their caprices. They must come to terms of peace at once, or they must be punished for what they have already done, and effectually prevented from repeating their outrages.”
I am, Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen’l.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOHN BEARD AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (EASTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[November 1, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of JOHN BEARD I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the

same of right appertaining, unto him, the said JOHN BEARD for the term of four years from the 30" day of August last, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 1" Day of November, in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty two and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixtyseventh."
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, FLETCHER WEBSTER, acting Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Execs. of Terrs.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Secretary TALLAHASSEE Nov 2" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>HoN: W* SELDEN Sec'y of the Treasury”
SIR, By an Act of the last Congress, entitled “An Act to provide for the settlement of certain accounts for the Support of Government in the Territory of Wiskonsin, and for other purposes,” approved
29th August 1842," it is made “the duty of the Secretary of each Territory, to prepare the Acts, passed by the Legislature of each Territory, for publication, and to furnish a Copy thereof to the public printer of the Territory, within ten days after the passage of each Act.” The imposition of this duty, though a new & laborious one, I should not complain of, had sufficient time been allowed me for its performance. But being thrown upon me during the Session of the Legislature, at a time when my other engagements and duties, as Secretary, keep me busily employed, it will be necessary for me to employ a clerk, to be enabled to furnish a copy of each Act of the Legislature to the public printer, within ten days after its passage.
I would, most respectfully, ask whether it is expected that I shall pay for this clerk hire out of my own Salary, or whether, under the circumstances, the Government will not be willing to allow me some compensation for the expense which I must incur in the discharge of a

duty, which has heretofore, been performed by someone expressly appointed by the Governor, and to whom adequate pay has always been granted for his labour?
I am, Very Respectfully Y. Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida
[Addressed] Hon: W" Selden Secretary of the Treasury Washington City D.C. [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flor. Nov 3 25
[Endorsed] Office Secy of Florida Nov 2/42 Tho" H. Duval Secy resp” employ" of clerk F3. Nov 15. 1" Auditor. Referred to the Auditor to state whether there is any appropriation to pay for the services of a Clerk. T.D. Nov. 15/42 What the date of the Act you referred me to in relation to this Matter—Underwood M*K L. file--
AnSd *
SECRETARY DUVAL TO GOVERNOR CALL
[FSL: Gov., Exec. Corres.:M*]
TALLAHASSEE No" 2" 1842
HIS EXCELL’Y R, K. CALL
SIR, I will thank you to include in your estimate of Territorial expenses for the present year, the cost of 3 large Bookcases ($120)
which John W. Levinus, under a contract with me, made for the Secretary's office, during the past Summer.
On assuming the duties of that office, I found every thing belonging to it, in a state of great confusion. The papers, books and public documents had increased to such an extent, that the three cases already in the Office were filled, and there remained a large quantity on the floor, enclosed in the boxes, in which they were originally sent. I
found also, that the room in which the Office was kept, was too small to contain all the papers, books &c, and, with your approbation, have since moved a large portion of them, into an adjoining one.—In the two rooms, jointly, there is plenty of space to admit of every thing belonging to the Office, being properly preserved, and arranged in order. But to effect this, I thought it absolutely necessary to have the three additional cases, above mentioned, made. Of the necessity of this measure, your knowledge of the previous condition of the office will enable you to judge. The cost of these cases ($40 each) may be thought extravagant. But they are neat, large and substantial, * Not found.

and, I beleive, as cheap as they can be made here, considering the high price of labour and materials."
Respectfully Y. Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO STEPHEN DANIEL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT November 7" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>STEPHEN DANIEL, Esqr. Marianna, Florida.
SIR, I am surprised at the contents of your letter of the 22"
ultimo," just received, and exceedingly sorry that there should have been such a total misunderstanding of the intentions and plans of the Department. Mr Levy was informed that the United States' officer, in command of the Army in Florida would be instructed to employ forty guides and assistants with their own Captain, to co-operate with the United States troops, but under the charge of the commander of the United States against the hostile Indians who had recently committed outrages in Florida.” The whole matter was to be arranged and executed by the Colonel or Officer commanding, and it was never contemplated that any company should organize itself, or that any person should take a single step until called on by the Officer in command. It is impossible to recognise this company, and it should immediately disperse, as it cannot be allowed to conduct any operations against the Indians without the express direction, and under the immediate control of Officers of the Army.
Although the Department is in no way responsible for what has been done, it does not the less regret the occurrence and the inconvenience to which the members of the company may be exposed.”
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surv' Gen. TALLAHASSEE 10" Nov 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. I have the honor to transmit herewith the Contract entered

into on the 8" inst, with Mr Henry Washington Deputy Surveyor together with the “General Instructions” of this Office—also the
“Special Instructions” by which he shall be governed in the prosecution of the work assigned him *—accompanied by a Diagram illustrative of the same * & embodying the Surveys ordered by your letter of 24" Sept* * which will be furnished in like manner to each Deputy Surveyor.
The enclosed copy will enable the Department to refer to the several “Districts” in order, by noting the letters from A. to G.
Col. Washington who has been employed to run the standard lines will repair instanter to his field of operations.
I expect by the next mail to forward the contract etc of another Deputy & hope very soon thereafter to be enabled to despatch each
& every ones in turn who shall be engaged in the Survey of the peninsula. All of which I trust will prove satisfactory.
I beg leave to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 21" ult: * covering Solicitors opinion in regard to “Joint Contracts for Surveying—&
in which you advise their “discontinuance” which shall be strictly adhered to.
I have the honor to be Very Respy Yr Ob" Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY Surv" Gen."
THO" H. BLAKE Esq." Comm' Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor 10 Nov 1842 Letter W.Y. Conway S.G. Transmits the contract for surveying, entered into on 8 inst, with Henry Washington; also copies of the special instructions given him. Ack" receipt of copy of Solicitor's opinion, sent with Commr's letter of 21 ult" & will comply with its directions. Ackg" Nov. 28
18426 W.T.S. Recd NOV. 22d 1842

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, Ix]</source>
<place-time>November 11, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY Esq, S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 27" Ult”, suggesting the propriety of your going in person to St Augustine for the purpose of procuring certificates of private claims from the public Archives, and other useful information for the correct & speedy prosecution of the new surveys lately ordered, & on which subject you request the views of this Office.”
In reply I have to state, that it appears to me, that the necessary information could be obtained by opening a correspondence with the proper Officers at S" Augustine, at the same time it is highly probable, as you remark, that if on the spot you would be enabled to expedite the business and collect much useful collateral information.
If therefore, as soon as your present pressing duties shall permit you to absent yourself from your Office, you shall think proper to go to St Augustine for a few weeks, I see no objection, but it must be at your own expense, as I do not feel authorized under the circumstances to permit the use of the Surveying Appropriation for the purpose.
I am Sir very resp? Your Ob' Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
N. B. In making your calls on the Officers at S" Augustine you will particularly specify the claims, concerning which you desire information, referring to them by their numbers in the reports and the page and volume of the American State papers published by Duff Green,"
and at the same time, transmit copies of the lists to this Office, in order that it may be advised of the particular claims, on which you are acting. It would be proper, to give your application a form that will enable the Officers to give you the information sought for in the most comprehensive manner, thus for example, send or take with you a paper referring first to the name of the claimant—N°. of claimand the date of the report embracing it–reference to the volume &
page embracing it, and under a coption of information desired, state what information you require leaving a sufficient blank space to be filled up by the Officers, who can attach or append diagrams in any

case where they can show with precision the location. A map showing the contemplated new surveys should likewise accompany it to be retained at S*Augustine. Yours &c T. H. B.
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Aband. Mil. Reserv. File, Box 107:C]</source>
<place-time>Copy PILATKA East Florida Nov 11th 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I am under the disagreable necessity of calling upon You for a detachment of U.S. troops, to enable me to discharge my duty—I
have made a Seisure of 5000 cubic feet of Live Oak in the name of and for the benefit of the United States. This oak being cut upon the public land by Palmer and Ferris and they are determined to carry Said Live oak away in defiance of my authority—It is proper for me to state that I cannot avail myself of the civil authority on the ground that there is no marshal to Serve a writ that I can get from the clerk of the Superior court, and the Judge of the county court of Duval, has possitively refused to issue any process against trespassers in cases where I have called upon him, -His plea was that He was employed as attorney for the Defendants.
I have called upon Capt Worth who commands this post for assistance in the foregoing case, and not feeling himself authorised to comply with my request, informs me that my application should have been made to the comdg Genl for assistance in the case, and advises me to Communicate with You upon the Subject—I will now call upon You as commander in chief of the troops operating in Florida knowing that You are ready and willing to assist the agent of the Genl Govt to execute the laws of the U. S.
Be pleased to Send troops to Jacksonville if in Your power to comply with my request Your Obt Servt with respect
(Signed) H L THISTLE agent for timber &c in East Florida GEN, W, J. WORTH Comdg in Fla WILLIAM J. WORTH TO HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE
<source>[NA:GLO, Aband. Mil. Reserv. File, Box 107:C]</source>
<place-time>Copy Head Quarters Military Depart FORT BROOKS Fla, Nov 20th 1842</place-time>
SIR I have to acknowledge Your communication of the 11th inst and decline compliance with the demand You have made therein—I
fear You misapprehend Your duty under the circumstances, However this may be I cannot be in doubt as to mine—The mode You propose
563214–62–37

would be a most palpable violation of the laws of the United States On examination of Your Commission, You will probably discover that You have not been appointed the executor of the Law, and like all other agents and citizens, Your only recourse is by regular process through the magistracy,–If the proper functionaries refuse You the legal remedies against depredations upon the public property entrusted to Your charge, State the fact to Your Superiors at Washington,"—
Your Obt Servt
(Signed) W* J WORTH Brig Genl Comdg H L THISTLE Agent for protection of timber on public Land in East Florida JOSHUA KNOWLES TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE, Flo Nov. 21, 1842</place-time>
SIR You were kind enough to appoint me Publisher of the laws of U. S. last year," and instructed me to notify the Department should any failure take place in the reception of the Nat. Intelligencer.
That paper has not now been received for some time, though I
presume I have published all the laws. Niether has the usual copy of the laws in pamphlet form come to hand.
I should be greatly obliged if the Department would notice this matter, and if compatible with the public interest, continue public favor to my paper, which I can say has the largest patronage by the people of Florida.”
Very Respectfully Your obt Sevt JOSHUA KNOWLES Editor Flo. Sentinel TO HON D. WEBSTER Sec State
[Addressed] To Hon. D. Webster Secretary State Washington D. C.
[Postmarked] Tallahassee Flor. Nov. 19 Free
[Endorsed] Rec" 29 Nov"

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO MOSES HOLBROOK</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 16]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE Nov. 24. 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>DOCTR MOSES HOLBROOK. Augusta G"
SIR. In reply to your communication of the 18" inst. addressed to the Hon: Secretary of State * and just referred to this Office, containing certain enquiries in behalf of a number of the Citizens of Augusta Ga. as to the situation and extent of the armed occupation district in the Territory of Florida, and to whom application must be made for permits of settlement under the late Act of Congress, I
herewith transmit two printed copies of my instructions to the Land Officers in that Territory" (including a copy of the Act), accompanied by a map shewing the division lines of the Land Districts, the line south of which the locations are authorized to be made, and the new Surveys which have been ordered, all which will afford you ample information on the subject You will perceive that the Northern boundary of the “armed occupation” district is a parallel extending East from Deadman's Bay, past the post of Pilatka on the St John's River, to Matanzas Inlet;
and that the whole peninsula South of that line is open to location under the law; also that applications are to be made to the Land Officers at Tallahassee, Newnansville or St Augustine according as the lands are situated in one or other of those Districts.
I will mention for your information that it is designed to accompany the annual report of this Office to be laid before Congress at its approaching Session, with a copy of the above map, in order that it may if deemed expedient be printed for Circulation. In the meantime, I would suggest that the publication of this letter without the documents, in some newspaper of your City would afford acceptable information to the public."
I am Sir resp. Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
13 Not found.
14 Aug. 25, 1842, NA(GLO, Lets. to Reg. and Rec., Bk. 16), printed in H. Exec. Doc. 39, 30 Cong., 1 sess., containing relevant instructions under act approved Aug. 4, 1842.
1. Cf. post, p. 578.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JAMES W. LONG</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT November 28” 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>MR. JAMES W. LONG, Holmes' Valley Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 16" instant is just received." You were correctly informed by the Hon. Mr. Levy of his interview with me, and of the substance of the instructions which I told him would be given. They were given accordingly to Colonel Vose, then in command in Florida, but of course, so far discretionary that a change of circumstances would justify a departure from them. Colonel Vose believing that the Indians referred to had not been informed of the arrangements made with other Indians and the terms of pacification offered to all, deemed it his duty first to apprise them of these things, and for that purpose dispatched messengers to them. By a series of untoward accidents, it seems the messengers have not yet been able to find the Indians and have not reported the result. Proceedings have been suspended by Colonel Wose and by General Worth solely for the purpose of endeavoring to bring in the Indians referred to in a shorter time and easier manner, than by hostile movements. General Worth, however, in a communication of a late date, says, that unless he has satisfactory accounts speedily, he shall at once execute the original instructions given to Colonel Wose. The subject has afforded occasion for frequent correspondence with the Officers in command in Florida. The information contained in your letter, of the inability of the inhabitants who have been scouting, to find any Indians, would seem to indicate that any efforts of that nature, would be hopeless.
With respect to the company of woodsmen, as you term them, Colonel Vose was authorised to employ forty men as guides and AS-
sistants, to act under his directions. Of course, however zealous and patriotic the persons were, who undertook to raise a company without such employment and without any authority whatever, upon the mere anticipation that some body would be employed, it is impossible that their service can be recognized by the Department. Should General Worth send a force to that quarter, he may think proper to muster the men who have been engaged in scouting, and it will be for him to determine from what time their service is to commence.
I trust that in the arrangements made you will perceive some evidence of the desire of this Department to afford all the protection which the nature of the case admits, to the inhabitants of Florida.
Your suggestions in relation to the Indians in question, are deemed
1" NA(WD, AGO Lets. Recd., L. 231).

so valuable that a copy of your letter will be forwarded to General WOrth.17
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>PALMER AND FERRIS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>[November 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON SECy OF THE NAVY
SIR: On the 23" of Sept last we received notice from Capt H L
Thistle” “Agent for the preservation of Timber & Wood on Public Lands in East Flo”" that certain parcels of Live Oak Timber now lying in the water near Trout Creek were under seizure by him as having been cut by us on Public Land in this Territory The Timber in question was cut for the Norfolk Navy Yard from several different private tracts of land, and was paid for as such by us; it was rafted to its present location in order to be ready for shipping as the water was deeper at that place than any other near us.
Capt Thistle, at the Same time notified us, and also gave public Notice that the Timber would be sold at public Auction on the 20"
Oct last, and thus far it remains under his seizure, and no sale has been made of it—
The course that Capt Thistle is pursueing is extremely embarrassing to us—We have at the present moment a Wessel chartered & laying here at the expense of demurage, which if this Timber was free from seizure, we might load her with, and give immediate despatch for the North.
Our Timber is procured with great labour & expense and we have invariably endeavoured to procure it from private grants & have confined ourselves in cutting, to the lines & corners of the Grants, as laid down on the plats procured from the Office of the Public Archives at St Augustine and it is no More than just that after we have procured and paid for it, that we should have the privelidge of shipping it without any obsticles being thrown in our way.
Capt Thistle has however laid an injunction on all Timber which may be shipped from this Place—and he has ordered the Dep’ Collec-

tor not to clear any vessel having it on board—and as the case now stands, without the proper Department takes some action upon it, it is useless for us to get out Timber to fulfill our Contracts to Your Department.
We have always endeavoured to be as prompt as possible in the fulfillment of our contracts—and have always avoided depredating on Public lands. We are always willing and able to pay for our Timber & have always procured & shipped it without difficulty, until the present Agent commensed his duties in this place. It has always been our aim to avoid coming into collision with him—and no person would offer him facilities of carrying out the duties of his office sooner than ourselves; but it seems, we are the individuals he has thought proper to choose as the subject of his persecution—and he has thus far done every thing in his power to injure us. While at the same time we have extended to him our aid in supplying him, with whatever stores we have had on hand, for the consumption of our own hands without advance on the first cost & expense of shipping—In regard to the private Grants in this Country, most invariably in all of them there arises some difficulty. They have been surveyed in so loose a manner, that the lines & corners as designated, gives more Land than the Grants call for. Capt Thistle contends they have a right to only the Quota of Land called for. while the claimants contend for all the land within their lines. & consequently they will sell all the Timber embraced in their claims—it seems not that they have a right so to do. & they trust to law & justice to uphold them in this right—Be pleased Sir, to advise us what course to pursue in the seizure made by Capt Thistle. We are undicided & wish to act according to the dictates of the law—in such cases made & provided–
We are willing to trust to Your decision in the case, and we are confident, you will extend to us justice & take a correct view of the subject—But we cannot concede to the whims & caprices of Capt Thistle, as it would be ruinous to us, indeed rather than so, we would prefer relinquishing our Contracts—however great the sacrifice might be to us. If Capt Thistle would persue any course sanctioned by law, we would know what to do. but as he acts regardless of all statutes, we are constrained to lay the case before You—and will await Your answer, trusting You will act on it as soon as practicable-
We would farther add—that under the practice of the former Agents—
(Aiken & Mason) when doubts arose as to the title of land on which live oak timber had been cut: their practice was to take a bondconditioned for the delivery of the timber to the Navy Yard according to our contracts—leaving the question to be after settled as to the title of land upon which it was cut-deducting from our contract

price at delivery the market price of the timber standing at the place where it was cut”
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servants PALMER & FERRIS
To A. P. UPSHAR Esq Secy of the Navy.
[Endorsed] Palmer & Ferris Nov/42 I cannot interfere in this matter F. 136 NOV 22. Call PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS BY
</docbody>
<dochead>CITIZENS OF THE TERRITORY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[December 1, 1842]</place-time>
<docbody>Petition To the President, Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled.
We the undersigned citizen inhabitants, of that portion of the Territory of Florida, known as the Chucochatee,” Annuttaliga,” and Homosassa * settlements, humbly petitioning to your Honorable Body beg leave to represent; that in the month of March of the present year, under an order issued by the then Col. Worth, United States Millitary Commander in Florida, executed by Lieut. Patrick, holding out inducements to the Citizens to occupy the Indian Country south of the Withlecoochee River, by the promise of a donation of lands—
protection by the United States Troops for a time—and subsitance for one year or more;—To embrace what we then hoped an advantageous proposition, we removed from the populated portions of Georgia and Florida to constitute the settlements above named. On our arrival at these places, it was rumored that Col. Worth had no authority to donate unsurveyed lands or create preemptions to settlers, and legal advice confirming the rumour, doubts and uncertainty mingling with the intention to locate and improve the land, and no protection whatever being afforded those who were disposed to improve and cultivate, and the with-holding entirely, the subsistance we were promised, we were reduced to great hardships, and not a few to extreme distress. Many were victims to the diseases of the country, the heads of large families, leaving them destitute upon the charity of those who are scarcely enabled in so distant and inapproachable a country, in a state of war to obtain subsistance for themselves. Those who were enabled to reoccupy their former abodes, have returned to them ruined. And the many who remain, without

the assistance of your Honorable Body, under the renewed relentless aspect the Indian war is again assuming look forward upon the dismal prospect of starvation.
With the above statement of facts, we petition to your Honorable Body, to fulfil so much of the promise made us by the Commander in Chief, as will enable us to prepare the lands we have selected under the new occupation law to Garner one crop—by granting a continuation of subsistance. We pray that our necessities may not be redoubled by delay And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray.
CHUCCOCHATTEE December 1* A.D. 1842
Lloyd E. Dillon E J Knight E. T. Hart Elisha Carter Charles Goodrich Hiram Parish Jn." A Bag John O'Connor Michael Torney Patrick M*Feeley F. Mathis Wm Pennelton R. Hall Wm Cooley George Rawls Richard R. Crum Joseph Moore David B Turner Sam L. Moore A J Moore Michael Shultz Dennis Gill John E. Johnson R. W. Clark A. H. Morse S T Branch Rufus Hoyt A H Crum J. N. Garrison W. M. Garrison Robt. D. Bradle

[Endorsed] Florida—Settlers Mem. of Henry Harn and others, settlers in Florida, asking an allowance of rations for subsistence until the incoming crop. Jany 16" 1843 Refd to Com” on Military Affairs.” Com. of military affairs D Levy AUGUSTUS W. WALKER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Collector’s office ST: AUGUSTINE December 2" 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: I have the honor to enclose herewith my monthly account of money received and expended during the past quarter.
A Settlement is now forming at and near a place, named Fort Pierce, lately occupied as a military post, at the mouth of Indian river, within this district and about two hundred miles South of St:
Augustine, several of the inhabitants of which have already gone there, to locate lands under the act past at the last session of Congress, and some have already, I understand entered their locations and obtained permits.—Ten heads of families with some eight or ten slaves have arrived in town from Georgia on their way to that place, and left yesterday in the schooner B. H. Field for Indian river, they state that one hundred more settlers are ready to follow them, destined for the same place, and wishing to avail themselves of the bounty offered by the Government.—
The bar of Indian river is deep enough for schooners and steamboats, I have myself seen in 1838, seven and eight vessels at the same time inside the bar, and as may be perceived by reference to the map, Indian River, together with St: Lucie sound and Jupiter narrows, forms a single sheet of water of some three degrees and half of latitude in length,-navigable for vessels of light draught, a steamboat, the Muscogee, was in 1838, if I remember, employed by Genl Jesup transporting troops and provisions from Fort Pierce to Jupiter narrows.—
This river is even now visited by wreckers, and offers them from its vicinity to the Florida reefs, and to others from the very short distance which separates it from Cuba and the Bahamas, when settled so as to afford security, a place of resort and deposite, from which merchandise, sugar, tobacco and segars in particular, could be shipped to any ports of the United States, as Florida produce.—I would therefore suggest the propriety of appointing an inspector to reside at Indian River, with a permanent salary, as no capable person, willing to execute his duty faithfully and devote his time to its performance, could accept the appointment, if paid only when employed, when moreover vigilance

would be necessary and entries for some time to come be probable rare. four hundred perhaps three hundred dollars might insure a competent person particularly with the prospect of an increase of compensation, should the duties become arduous. A boat would also be necessary, the bar being five miles distant from Fort Pierce, about the nearest point on the main land, and two other inlets Gilbert's and Jupiter both also outlets of this sheet of water, contenually opening and closing, offering when open a channel sufficiently deep to be used and often used by wreckers, these two latter inlets, the first about thirty miles, the second fifty five South of Fort Pierce are I beleive included in the District of Key West.
Should it be deemed necessary under these circumstances to appoint an inspector for Indian river, I will endeavour to find a competent person to fill the office.
An inspector was, before the war, stationed at New Smyrna near the Mouth of Musquito inlet, which place, I beleive will soon be resettled, more numerously than before, in that event, I would also require information in relation to the course proper to be pursued.
I have, Sir, imposed at some length on your attention, may I trust that my desire of fulfiling, what I deem my duty, in pointing out what the emigration now directing itself to this territory, appears to render necessary, may be a sufficient excuse.
I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect Your obedient Servant A.W. WALKER Collector TO THE HONORABLE WALTER A. FORWARD Secretary of the treasury Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] St Augustine Dec 2" 1842 AW Walker coll rec" app"
of an Insp at Indian River to be all" a Rev" Boat &c Ans" Jan 10"/
43 * L 35. Dec 12 Rodman 
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY </dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>Decr 10, 1842</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY, Esqr. S. G. Tallahassee, Flo:
SIR. In order to enable you to carry out, in as satisfactory manner as possible to all concerned the instructions from this Office in regard to locations under the Armed occupation Act, & also in relation to surveying operations generally, you are requested to give notice in all the newpapers in Florida, by a publication once a week for three months, to the following effect:

Notice to all persons representing Private Claims in Florida, which may have been confirmed or recognized by law.
As the undersigned, Surveyor General of the United States will proceed, pursuant to instructions from the General Land Office, to extend the lines of the public surveys from—[here give a description of the limits of surveying operations from N. to S, & from E to W.]”
& also to designate on his returns of surveys, all locations that may be reported to him by the Register under the Armed occupation Act, it is important that all those representing private claims in the section of the Country referred to, should on or before the [Blank] file in the Office of the undersigned, at Tallahassee, a description of their respective claims, indicating the Reports which may embrace such claims; the dates of the Reports; N” of claims; names of original claimants in the Reports; names of present claimants in the Reports;—
by what law confirmed or recognized; also that such information be accompanied by plats, properly verified, shewing the exact locality of such claims, with any other information that will enable the undersigned to represent such claims on his returns of survey, & thereby avoid conflict as far as possible, -prevent the extension of the lines of the public surveys through such claims, & protect them from being located as public lands.
Unless such information & plats be filed in the Office of the undersigned within the period mentioned, great difficulty & embarrassment may ensue to those representing such claims, & which it is the object of this Notice to avoid.
By order of the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
All papers that you may receive, pursuant to this notice should be properly endorsed by giving the Number of claim,-name of claimant, -
Report, -Area,—& locality; & placed in a special file so that you can easily refer to the same, & avail yourself of the information in your surveying operations. You will take care to lay down no claim in your returns of survey without giving such a succinct reference to the nature of the claim & record of it, as will enable the Department to identify the same in the Records without difficulty.
By this notice it is of course not intended that you should relax your efforts to ascertain & discover from your records, or from any other source within your reach the exact locality of all private claims.”
Very respy Your ob" St THO: H. BLAKE Comm.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands:LS*]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E.F. Dec 10th 1842</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Our Court at S*Augustine adjourned “Sine die” on Saturday the 3" Inst at 3 'clock P.M.: and the next day I was compelled to leave home to attend the term at this place which commenced on the
5* Inst: it will therefore be impossible for me to make my report for the term at S*Augustine before my return from the Circuit: Gov"
Duval" attended at S*Augustine throughout the term, and every effort was made both by him and myself (that could with propriety be made) to press the land cases to a final hearing and yet no case was finally decided: in some insuperable difficulties interposed:—The three Cases of the Arredondos, amounting together to 346,000 acres were continued on motion of the claimants, founded upon a shewing by affidavits which the Court after a very full argument held to be sufficient, so that the duties of the Attorney of this District, in the land Cases are not yet lessened; on the Contrary they will be materially increased during the ensuing year by a reference back from the Supreme Court of Seventeen Cases: Seven of them for dismission: but ten of them amounting to 255,000 acres are remanded for further proceedings, so that the claims yet to be acted upon by the Court amount of between 700,000 & 800,000 acres In addition to which, difficulties have arisen about the boundaries of other tracts which have been heretofore confirmed by the Supreme Court, with directions to the Superior Court of this District “that such further and other proceedings be had in such causes as according to right & justice and the laws of the United States ought to be had.
the writ of Error notwithstanding”—under which general order, as the Court before the Cases were carried up had power to direct a Survey in given cases) it has been thought by the Counsel for some of the Claimants, that it still possesses the power; & the question has been informally presented to the Court, whether it can now in such cases order a survey; and should a motion for that purpose be sustained
(as I think highly probable) orders for surveys will be applied for in a number of these cases, As the lands in East Florida are about to be generally surveyed by the United States it is exceedingly important, not only to the Claimants, but to the Government, that all these vexed questions of boundary should be speedily & correctly settled. the duties therefore

of the Attorney for this District instead of being at all diminished will be (as before stated) very materially increased during the coming year. —I therefore most respectfully submit to you, and through you to the President whether his extra Compensation for this branch of his duty ought to be diminished, as suggested in the instructions of the President to you, a Copy of which you did me the honour to enclose to me under date of the 18" of March last.”
In the case of the United States vs. John C. Cleland late Receiver
&" at S*Augustine, I obtained a judgement for $7,694.80/100 exclusive of the costs which are not yet taxed—I moved the Court to tax the mileage of M" Wood (who was sent out with the original bond of M* Cleland) under a writ of duces tecum from Washington to S*
Augustine, which was objected to by M Clelands Counsel and the Court not having time to hear & determine the question before its adjournment the taxation of the Costs was necessarily suspended With great respect I am, Sir Yours &c THO DOUGLAS U.S. Atty C. B. PENROSE Esq." Sol U.S. Treasury City of Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Thomas Douglas. U.S. Atty. December. 10" 1842.
Extract sent to the President in communication of Jan’ 14. 1843–
and on the 6" of Feb 1843, a copy was sent to Jeremiah Morris,”
Chairman of Co" on Public Lands. F.B." See letter to M' Douglas in reply dated Mar. 25. 1843 *
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>East Florida JACKSONVILLE December 10" 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>HON” A. P. UPSHUR Secretary of the Navy My reluctance at all times to interfere in any manner, with the conduct, and action of our public servants, has restrained me from communicating to your department some months before this, the signular and harrassing conduct and assumption of power which has been & is now exercised by Mr. Thistle, the Agent sent here for the preservation of the live oak and other ship timber growing on the lands of the United States. This man may be and no doubt is anxious to render all the service in his power to the Government, but from what I know of his mind, and conduct, it is my opinion, he is not quite sane He is actually exercising more authority than your whole department, The President of the United States—does not claim half the powers—that are assumed by this live oak Agent—

He is seising on all timber, that he finds cut, and even on the common light wood for fires unless the Individuals, will prove to him they did not cut it on the public domain—constituting himself the Judge, jury, and marshal. The consequence is that on this docket of the Superior court for this county—some eight or ten perhaps more suits are pending in reation to the trespass committed by the Agent, or as he thinks committed by individuals on the timber which he says belong to the United States. I suppose there is not ten acres of public land on either side of the St. Johns river for one hundred and fifty miles above its mouth—These private claims have not
(but in a few instances) been yet surveyed—Mr Thistle, is acting also as the Surveyor General, in surveying and demarking the boundary of such private claims, according to his construction of their form & location—He has issued I am told an order to the collector, as to his duty in clearing vessels. freighted with lumber—And the District Attorney for the United States here, has no influence with the Agent—because the latter entertains no doubt of his own superior legal learning over the District Attorney—I have understood, that a quantity of ship timber procured some time since by some contractors for your Department & which did not answer for the objects designed, has been taken by the Agent & shiped north to some Navy yard, at the expence of the United States, and for which no doubt the government will have to pay some five or six thousand Dollars—It is quite probable the expenses incured by the Agent will be found greatly beyond any thing contemplated by your Department. The Department would find its greatly to the interest of the United States, to appoint its Agent from among the gentlemen who are acquainted with this portion of the Territory, and have an intimate knowledge of the private land claims; and of the Inhabitants—Their is not a man so well quallified in every respect to fulfull the duties of Agent, as Co" Joseph S. Sanches the late marshal of this district—He is well acquainted with the private land claims, has seen more of this portion of Florida than any other person, is known and respected by the people every where—and is one of the most, inteligent bold, and efficient officers that ever served the United States—This gentleman, would be of more real service in preserving the ship timber for
[MS. torn], that half a dozen such as the acting agent—If you continue the incumbent your department will be put to serious trouble &
inconvenience if not expence I have ever taken a decided interest in the preservation of our valuable ship timber in Florida knowing that it is the only quarter of the Union where such valuable timber can now be obtained in any quantity *-
I am with high respect & esteem Wm P. DUVAL

[Addressed] Hon.” A. P. Upshur Secretary of the Navy Washington city
[Endorsed] Duvall Dec 10 1842 file Jan 19. Call WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES B. PENROSE
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands: ALS *]</source>
<place-time>Florida. JACKSONVILLE December 12" 1842.</place-time>
CHARLES B. PENROSE Esqr Solicitor of the Treasury SIR. The land suits pending in the Superior court at St. Augustine were continued upon strong affidavits made by the parties—The District Attorney and myself made every exertion to bring up the cases for trial, and warmly contested the right of the parties after so much delay, to continue the causes; but our objections were overruled by the court, as it concieved the affidavits, intitled the parties to the continuance they solicited. I regret this postponement as I had devoted my time for several months in preparing myself to argue these cases which it is probable I shall never do, as my Agency in behalf of the United States will terminate with the present year.
The interest of the United States, so far from becoming less, in the defence of the land claims in this Territory, will for two years, continue highly important.
Most of the concessions, or grants, in this territory, (taken up to, and confirmed by the Supreme Court) do not make the surveys the basis of the decrees—but generally the opinion of the court goes only to the confirmation of the grant, or concession according to its locallity or calls—I state from my own knowledge that in many cases the surveys made under the Spanish Authorities, are at places very distant from the lands discribed in the grants. It will therefore become necessary for the courts here to order surveys to be made surveys to be made in conformity to the grants. Many of the grants are so vague, and uncertain, it will be impossible to locate them, and in those that can be located, lands at other points, and distant from the calls of the concession or grants have, been improperly surveyed.
Many of the surveys as returned by Clarke & other surveyors under the Spanish, rule in East Florida, were manufactured in the Chimney corner, nor did they ever go on the land to mark a corner or a line. The cases now pending in the Superior court at St Augustine including those remanded by the Supreme court for further proceedings, do not involve less, than seven hundred thousand acres of land.
It is impossible to say with any certainty, what number of acres will

be in controversy, if the surveys should be made to conform to the grants—It seems to me in many of the cases, it will become necessary for some legal and competent Agent of the United States, to attend on the ground, and direct the form of the surveys in behalf of the Government, while the claimants also have his survey delineated on the platt, as he may deem proper, so the court may be enabled to decide justly between the parties—The duties of the District Attorney will under this state of the land claims be increased for the next two years greatly—From my examination of many of the grants, & comparing them with the surveys it is evident that the grantees have sought out the best lands without regard to the calls of the grants. If these surveys are admitted as valid, the parties of course may cull the finest lands in the Territory, without refference to their location according to their grants—
If the law of the last session of congress repeating all the powers granted to the law Agent & district Attorney ahould remain unchanged it does not require much foresight to perceive that the interest of the United States in the soil of Florida will be sacrificed Respectfully Your Obt Srvt W" P. DUVAL Law Agent in the Florida land claims
[Addressed Charles B. Penrose Esq Solicitor of the Treasury Washington City
[Endorsed] Wm. P. Duval. Law Agent for Florida lands. December.
12" 1842. Relative to state of suits S* Augustine for land claims under Florida Treaty & necessity for Counsel to prosecute them—
Copy sent to the President in communication of Jan’ 14, 1843—and on the 6" of Feb. 1843, a copy was sent to Jeremiah Morrow, Chairman of Com" on Public Lands. F.B. See letters to W* P. Duval
& Dis. Attorney dated March 25, 1843 *
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY THE APALACHICOLA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:Pr.]</source>
<place-time>|Referred December 28, 1842)</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable The Senate and House of Representatives of the United States.
Your Memorialists, the Chamber of Commerce of the City of Apalachicola, Florida, respectfully pray, that an appropriation be made by Congress for establishing Lights on Cape St. George and Cape St. Blas, as your Memorialists believe that such lights are nec-

essary to the safe navigation of vessels into this port by the West Pass.
In support of this petition your Memorialists respectfully represent: That in the early settlement of Apalachicola, while her Commerce and Exports were small, a Light House was erected on the West end of St. George's Island," as a guide to vessels entering the West Pass to this port. Experience has shown the location to be such as destroys its usefulness, it being a mere harbor light, obscured by Cape St. George, and cannot be seen by vessels approaching the coast till long after they make the land, it being an invariable custom to fall in to the eastward, because of the easterly trade winds, and to avoid the westerly currents. In erecting a Light House at St. Joseph's Bay, the location has proved still more unfortunate, being also a harbor light and in no degree useful to Commerce, as that port is entirely abandoned for commercial purposes.
The commercial importance of Apalachicola is shewn by the Exports of Cotton, which amount to upwards of one hundred thousand bales per annum. These exports, with various other products are rapidly increasing, as the new lands in Florida and portions of Alabama and Georgia are brought under cultivation. They are all dependant upon Apalachicola for a market; they give employment to a large number of vessels in the coasting and foreign trade, and it is therefore indispensible to the welfare of the City, and the security of its trade, that Lights should be erected on Cape St. George and Cape St.
Blas, and that those before mentioned be discontinued, retaining the buildings as beacons for vessels entering the harbor. The loss of life and property has been considerable, in consequence of a deficiency of lights to indicate the entrance between the two Capes above-mentioned. During the last year, the Brig Garland, cargo and several lives, were lost on Cape St. Blas, which your memorialists believe might have been avoided by good lights on these points.
Your Memorialists further pray, that measures be immediately adopted for building a Marine Hospital at this port. Under present arrangements, the condition of sick and disabled seamen cannot be made in any degree comfortable, the amount allowed for their board and support not being sufficient to procure such lodging and attendance as is required. In the opinion of your Memorialists, it is only necessary for Congress to be made acquainted with these facts, to insure a favorable reception and grant of their petition.
Your Memorialists believe that great injustice has hitherto been done to this port, and the interests of those engaged in its trade, from a misapprehension as regards the position and advantages for trade, and real commercial importance of the place. The causes producing

this misapprehension, your Memorialists believe no longer exist;
Apalachicola has now, and must for all time to come have, the entire trade of the country bordering on the Flint, Chattahoochee, Apalachicola and Chipola Rivers, and it is but reasonable to suppose, that her Exports will in a few years more than double its present amount;
and that her imports will also in time, bear some near proportion to the large amount of her foreign exports. The amount of duties on imports at this port, is at present small, but it should be remembered that most of the foreign merchandize consumed in this district is entered at northern ports, and from thence shipped to this place. Your Memorialists believe that the justice of granting the appropriation necessary to carry into effect the objects sought by their memorial, will be fully admitted, when it is considered that the amount of foreign goods here consumed is equal in proportion to the exports, compared with other sections of the United States, and that these exports and imports give employment to about three hundred vessels and steamer, whose tonage for this year is estimated at fifty thousand tons, and which have in their employ near three thousand men.
Your Memorialists further pray that reference be had to the accompanying Chart, Statistical Table and Memorial from ship masters, which, in the opinion of your Memorialists will fully establish the facts herein set forth.
DAVID G. RANEY, President Apalachicola Chamber of Commerce.
RICHARD G. PORTER, Secretary.
[Endorsed] Comm. of Commerce. Mr Levy *
[Enclosures:Pr.]
Resolution by the Legislative Council
[March 3, 1841]
Preamble and Resolution Passed at the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida.
WHEREAS, the trade between the towns of Apalachicola and St.
Joseph, and the commercial cities of the Union, has increased to an extent calling for the notice and protection of the General Government: And whereas, all vessels bound to and from those ports, as well as those employed in the coasting trade between New Orleans and St.
Marks, are necessarily exposed to the dangerous navagation around Cape St. Blas, which is regarded by mariners as the Hattaras of the Gulf, its shoals projecting from eight to ten miles to sea, and which in many instances has proved dangerous to human life and destructive

to property; And whereas, a Light House erected on the most eligible point on said Cape, would be eminently useful to all vessels bound in to Apalachicola and St. Joseph, or employed in the coasting trade.
Be it therefore resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That our Delegate in Congress be requested to urge upon that body the necessity and utility of erecting on Cape St.
Blas, a suitable Light House, and that this resolution, properly authenticated, be forthwith transmitted to the Delegate in Congress.
Approved 3d March, 1841.
Hiram Nourse to David G. Ramey Custom House, Apalachicola, November 22, 1842.
Sir—In compliance with a request from the Chamber of Commerce of Apalachicola, I enclose herewith a statement of the Exports and Imports in this district from September, 1841, to October, 1842, with the tonage engaged and number of men therein.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant HIRAM NOURSE, Collector.
To DAVID G. RANEY, Esq., President Apalachicola Chamber of Commerce.
STATEMENT
of exports and imports in the District of Apalachicola, from Sept., 1841, to Oct., 1842.
Amount of Cotton shipped to foreign ports, Bales 38,794
did & 4 66 & 4 coastwise, 48,070
- 86,864
Average weight per bale, 450 lbs., making, Pounds 39,088,800
Value of foreign exports, $1,363,841.00
“ coastwise £6 1,682,450.00
$3,046,291.00
Amount of dutiable imports, 32,814.39
66 free goods, 12,778.92 45, 593.31
Tonnage employed, Tons 42,680
Number of men employed, 2,490
HIRAM NOURSE, Collector.
Custom House, APALACHICOLA, November 22, 1842.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE Dec. 30, 1842.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: A. P. UPSHER Sec. of Navy SIR. In the Madisonian Newpaper of 23* ins" a paragraph appears copied from a New Orleans paper in relation to depredations likely to be committed on live Oak timber under the guise of settlements by
“permits” granted in virture of the Act of Congress of 4* August last, making provision “for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida”—
In connection with this subject I beg leave to present you with a copy of the instructions emanating from this Office, for carrying into effect the provisions of the aforesaid Act, —and prescribing the form of permit to be issued by the Registers of the Land Offices in the armed occupation district, —which you will perceive is designed to protect the valuable species of property alluded to in the paragraph mentioned, as far as in the power of this branch of the public service.”
I have the honor to be With great respect Sir, your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO MILLARD FILLMORE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIII]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF STATE January 3” 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON MILLARD FILLMORE, Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, House of Representatives SIR, In reply to your letter of the 29" ult” * respecting the offices of the Keepers of the Florida Archives, I have the honor to state that those officers appear to have been created for the preservation of land titles; and that the subject appertains to the Department of the Treasury, to which your letter will be referred."
I have the honor &c.
DAN WEBSTER

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN WHITE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Repts. to Cong., Bk. 541]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT January 3” 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON, JOHN WHITE, Speaker of the House of Representatives.
SIR. In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 30" ultimo * requiring “the Secretary of War to place before the House such information as can be obtained in relation to the practicability and probable expense of draining the ever glades in Florida &c” I respectfully transmit herewith a report of the Colonel of the Corps of Topographical Engineers showing that an appropriation of $10.000 will be necessary to enable this Department to obtain the information required by the resolution.”
J.C.S.
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF MADISON COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[Referred January 3, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>To The Hon. Senate & House of Representatives of the United States in Congress Assembled.
The Undersigned a Committee appointed at a Called meeting of the Citizens of the County of Madison in the Territory of Florida on the
4* Dec 1842. In discharge of the duty incumbent upon them under their appointment.
Respectfully present to your Honorable bodies. That as the war with the Seminole Indians, with which they have been harrassed for the last six years is about to be brought to a close. The Attention of the Inhabitants of the County and the citizens generally in Florida &
Georgia adjacent to the Suwannee River and its tributaries has

naturally turned to the improvement & increase of the facilities of the trade and commerce of the Country.
The Good planting and farming Country tributary to Suwannee—
for want of small improvement of the navigation of that River is at present far remote from trade—and with an inconsiderable amount of money judiciouslly Expended Your Memorialists and those they represent are of opinion, that a large extent of the finest Country in the South might be furnished with the means of exporting their surplus products The Indian war has driven many of the Proprietors from their Plantations already in operation before its commencement and has arrested Emigration from coming in and occupying the fine lands open for settlement.
Your Memorialis now Pray your Honorable Bodies that a small appropriation be made to improve the navigation of the Suwannee River up to the highest point susceptible of improvement at slight Expense Your Memorialists Further represent to your Honorable body upon this Head that impressed with the propriety and importance of this work, Congress on a former occasion—in the year 1836.
made an appropriation for the same object which has not been expended, in Consequence as your memorialists believe of danger of carrying on the work in a part of the Country occupied by the Enemy.
Your memoralists further represent unto your Honorable bodies that they have caused an examination to be made of the Keys or Islands at the mouth the Suwannee River with a view to the establishment of a Commercial Depot for the purposes of shipment of the produce which may go off on the River. And they found that North Key, about ten miles from the mouth of the River, well situated in almost Evry respect for those purposes—The Cedar Key & Sea Horse Key are both used by the Government and may probably be reserved—
for the purposes of the Government in future—Your memorialists would therefore wish to avoid interfering with Either of them—But would respectfully pray your Hon. bodies to cause the Key Known as North Key to be surveyed & sold with a view to the Erection of ware Houses and other buildings necessary to the Commencement of a Commercial business there also that a Port of Entry be established there Your Memorialists further Pray that your Honorable Bodies will take the whole matter into favourable consideration—& make such order as will best promote the views and intersts of your memorialists and those they represent.
And your memorialists as in duty bond will Ever pray &c—.
THO" LIVINGSTON JOHN S. BROOME
JOHN C. M*GEHEE M. C. LIVINGSTON
D. H. MAYS

[Endorsed] Florida—Sawaney river Mem" of a committee of the citizens of Madison County in Florida, praying that a town be laid off at Cedar Key, & an appropriation to improve the navigation of the Suwanney River. Jan 3, 1843* Ref" to the Committee on Territories—Dec. 29. 1843* Com. of Commerce. D Levy VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THE PRESIDENT
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Exec. Officers:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee FLORIDA Jan’ 5. 1843</place-time>
MY DEAR SIR, Mr Robert B. Semple lately appointed by you Receiver of public monies at this place " has just informed me of his intention to visit Washington with a view of representing to the Department the total inadequacy of his present Salary to afford him a bare support. He thinks under existing Laws it can & ought to be increased.
In justice to himself & to the Government also, I am, with all due deference, of the same opinion.
The Receiver here is only allowed $500. p" an. For the last two years he has not derived more than a hundred dollars I understand, as a p" centage upon the whole am" of Receipts upon Land Entries.
This am" will fall far short—say some $400, of giving an actual support to a single man at this most expensive place.
I can only express the hope that it may comport with Your own views Sir, & those of Your Secretary to allow M* Semple a reasonable Salary & retain him in the service of the Government. I have no doubt he will make a most efficient & valuable officer.
Should M Semple decline the office I would recommend as his successor M. Robert H. Booth whö is most favorably known to you as a highly esteemed citizen of Petersburg & who was strongly supported for the office of Post Master at that place.
M* Booth I understand would be willing to come to Florida, if a fair inducement were offered—I may add that he possesses the rare qualification of being able to give the fullest quarantee—Having a large & very influential connection in this country. His appointment would of course be popular."

I have the honor to be with the highest respect Your Excellencies Friend & servant W. Y. Conway
|Addressed] His Excellency Jno. Tyler P. U. States Washington City D C M Semple THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office WASHINGTON, Jan. 7, 1843</place-time>
BRIG. GEN’L. W. J. WORTH Comdg. 9" Dept. Tampa, Fla.
SIR: Your dispatch of December 25** with Capt. Seawell's Report and other enclosures, in relation to the disposition made of certain bands of Indians at Tampa Bay and Cedar Keys, has been received and submitted to the General in Chief and Secretary of War;
and I am happy to inform you that your proceedure in the case, meets with the entire approbation of the authorities at Washington."
I am Sir—&c R. JONES, A. Gen’l.
<dochead>WALKER ANDERSON TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. re Lands: ALS]</source>
Officer of the U.S: Attorney for W. Florida—
PENSACOLA Jany 13* 1843
SIR! On the 1* of November 1842 I had the honor of making a report to the Attorney General,” under instructions from his office, on the subject of certain lots in this city belonging to the United States. I beg leave to refer you. to that letter in connexion with the purpose of this—Some of those lots are improved and all of them valuable and both the marshall of this district & myself are desirous of procuring some instructions as to our duty in relation to them.
Numerous applications have been made to us in relation te them & to rent them, but we do not know the extent of our authority in relation to them.

We respectfully solicit instructions on the subject.
I have the honor to be Your Obt Serv't WALKER ANDERSON U: S: Atty for WF
HON: C B PENROSE Solicitor &c
[Endorsed] W. Florida, Pensacola, January 13, 1843. Walker Anderson US Att” relative to Lots in Pensacola belonging to the U States; some of them very valuable; applications have been made to him to rent them—asks instructions. Referd to his report of the 1 Nov 1842 to the Attorney General for description of the lots.
Walker Anderson. U.S. Attorney Pensacola. Fla. January 13* 1843.
Answered January * 1843." F.B." Waring” W given to me by Compton * from Mr Pleasants * Nov 21.43 Lots in Pensacola CHARLES B. 
<dochead>PENROSE TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF 27 Cong. 3 sess.:C *]</source>
OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR OF THE TREASURY
(Copy) January 14, 1843.
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 24" Ult,” together with the protest addressed to you by Richard S. Hackley on the 21. of November last,” in regard to certain lands in Florida claimed by him. I have given the case such attention as my other engagements would permit, and beg leave to submit the following report.
On the 6" of February 1818, the King of Spain, granted to the Duke of Alagon, at his request certain uncultivated land, not ceded, in East Florida. There was no pecuniary consideration for the grant, judging from the deed itself. On the 27. of June 1818. Gov.
Coppinger, gave to D. Nicholas Garrido resident of S* Augustine and Attorney for the Duke of Alagon, possession of all the lands so granted. On the 29" of May 1819. the Duke of Alagon conveyed to Richard S. Hackley & Co the lands included within certain boundaries in the deed set forth.

By the 2" article of the Treaty between the United States and Spain of the 22" of February 1819. His Catholic Majesty ceded to the United States, all the Territories which belonged to him situated to the eastward of the Mississippi, known by the name of East and West Florida, the adjacent Islands &" “which are not private property”.” By the 8" article of the Treaty “all the grants of lands made before” the 24" of “January 1818. by his Catholic Majesty, or by his lawful authorities in the said Territories, ceded by his Majesty to the United States, shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands, to the same extent that the same grants would be valid, if the Territories had remained under the dominion of his Catholic Majesty. But the owners in possession of such lands, who, by reason of the recent circumstances of the Spanish Nation and the revolutions in Europe, have been prevented from fulfilling all the conditions of their grants shall complete them within the terms limited in the same respectively, from the date of this treaty; in default of which, the said grants shall be null and void.
All grants made since the said 24" of January 1818. when the first proposal on the part of his Catholic Majesty for the cession of the Florida's, was made, are hereby declared and agreed to be null & void.”
In the ratification of the Treaty by the King of Spain, on the 24
of October 1820. there is this passage “Desirous at the same time of avoiding any doubt of ambiguity concerning the meaning of the 8"
Article of the said Treaty, in respect to the date which is pointed out in it as the period for the confirmation of the grants of lands in the Florida's made by me, or by the competent authorities in my Royal name which point of date was fixed in the positive understanding of three grants of land made in favor of the Duke of Alagon the Count Punonrostro, and Don Pedro de Vargas,” being annulled by its tenor, I think proper to declare that the said three grants have remained, and do remain entirely annulled and invalid; and that neither the three individuals mentioned, nor those who may have title or interest through them, or in any manner; under which explicit declaration the said 8” article is to be understood as ratified.”
The question then arises is the grant made by the King of Spain to the Duke of Alagon, valid, notwithstanding the declaration contained in the ratification of the King? On this point M Hackley has

furnished to you, the opinion of many distinguished jurists, all favorable to his claim.
On the 4" of August last, the act entitled “An act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida”, was approved." By the first section it is provided “that any person being the head of a family, or single man over eighteen years of age, able to bear arms, who has made or shall within one year from and after the passage of this act, make an actual settlement within that part of Florida situated and being south of the line dividing townships numbers nine and ten south, and East of the base line, shall be entitled to one quarter section of said land,” on certain conditions.
The eighth section enacts “that the President of the United States may, at any time, by proclamation, suspend all further permits and settlements under this act, by giving three months notice thereof.”
M* Hackley having fortified himself with many favourable legal opinions, submits them for your consideration together with his protest; and a letter from his counsel." The reason assigned for such course is, an apprehension that the act of Conrgess which I have just cited may be made to operate to his disadvantage. He remarks in his protest as follows; “the terms of the act though equivocal may be understood and it is said, have at the land office in Washington been interpreted, to give for the choice of the Districts the range of the whole Peninsula of East Florida; and, so, to include the lands belonging to me. It is therefore, that I use the earliest occasion to invoke the deliberation of the Executive and as resolutely as solemnly, to protest against the trespass on my rights, which may be contemplated by any appropriation of my lands under colour of this act of Congress;
if such be at all in contemplation. I ask the Executive to pause, when in the path of his discretionary power, I oppose a title so enforced by muniments of highest import and dignified by considerations of authoritative claim, interwoven with the genius of our institutions, and the vital principles of all social security. I fear not to bring my pretensions to the judicial test. To that arbitrament, I am entitled;
and no forcible movement of the United States should anticipate it, and, by such an attempt to subdue me to its exaction, constrain me me to be a suitor for redress or a suppliant for Congressional justice.
I am ready to submit to the law officer of the government all the testimonials of my title, and the expositions of its merits, from the most eminent legal minds of Country. These and the opinions of foreign jurists, may be needed for counsel to the Executive on the question

whether, as authorized by the act of Congress referred to, the Executive ought to arrest any occupation or survey that, under the act, may by designed, of the lands which I claim, until judicial action on my rights may be had. That Executive measure I ask; while I now record this my protest against any pretensions of the United States to the lands I have thus claimed, and against any intrusion upon my estate by occupation or survey under the government.”
Accompanying this protest, there is a letter addressed to you by the Counsel of M* Hackley, in which they state that the only [support]
they then seek, is, “such a respectful regard for his claim, as shall induce our government promptly to have his case submitted to judicature, upon its actual and substantial merits—and freed from those technical and vexatious embarrassments, which sometimes serve merely to delay justice, and occasion reciprocal expense when between individuals, although the ultimate justice eventually should triumph.”
They add: “but it being now intimated to him” (M* Hackley) “that a survey of his lands has been contemplated (not so much by the power that enacted the recent law, which expires in August next) as by the interpretation given to it by those having its execution in the Land Office he has been advised by his counsel to protest against the sameand to no longer delay the full and petual establishment of his title—
in the which he confidently relies on the justice of his government, and for reciprocal advantage to aid him.”
The acts which M. Hackley and his Counsel are anxious that the President should perform are not very clearly indicated; but I infer that he is obliquely requested to do these two things.
1. To issue his proclamation to suspend all further permits and settlements under this act of Congress last.
2. To adopt some plan by which a case may be made between M'
Hackley and the United States, and submitted to Judicial decision.
Before the President could be advised to adopt either of these measures it would be necessary to ascertain if the claim of M* Hackley be so clear and irrefragible that the simple statement of it, would demand Executive interference, as an act of justice.
I have not examined his title in a manner which warrants me in pronouncing a definite opinion upon it; nor is it necessary that I
should; it is sufficient for me to say at this time, that the title is not free from doubt. An examination of the 1* Vol of State papers, will throw much light upon the history of the Treaty between the United States and Spain. It appears that M. Ewing * our Minister

to Spain wrote to M Adams, on the 10" of February 1818,” that the King had lately made large grants of land in East Florida to several of his favourites, and that he had been credibly informed, that by a sweeping grant to the Duke of Alagon, he had within a few days past given away the remainder.—1. Wol State papers 13.
It was the intention of M*Adams, as will appear by an examination of his correspondence with Don Onis, to guard the government against the effects of the sweeping grants made by the King of Spain. He constantly urged that all grants lately made by Spain should be cancelled; and he rejected the proposition of Don Onis that all grants prior to the 24" of January 1818, should be absolutely confirmed—
yet it has been contended that all such are confirmed by the Treaty.
In this connexion, I beg leave to submit an extract from the opinion of M” Justice Thompson in the case of the United States vs Arredondo and others. 6. Peters at Page 755.
“The subsequent negotiation shows that the estate as it now stands, was put into that shape expressly for the purpose of guarding against such construction, and with the understanding, both of Don Onis and M. Neville, who acted in his behalf during a part of the negotiation, that the grants of land dated before as well as after the 24" of January
1818, were annulled, except those upon which settlements had been commenced, the completion of which had been prevented by the circumstances in Spain, and the recent revolutions in Europe . . .
There can be no doubt that such was the understanding of Don Onis and M. Neville; and M Adams in a letter to our Minister in Spain, whilst the treaty was pending before the King for ratification, states that the reasons why the grants to the Duke of Alagon and others were not excluded by name, were 1* conformably to the desire of Mr Onis to save the honor of the King; and 2" because from the despatches of M. Ewing, it was supposed there were other grants of the same kind, and made under similar circumstances; To have named them might have left room for a presumptive inference in favor of others; the determination was to exclude them all.”
It may be inferred from the act of the 23" of May 1828.” entitled
“an act supplementary to the several acts providing for the settlement and confirmation of private land claims in Florida,” that the Legislative opinion was adverse to the validity of these grants. The sixth section provides for the decision of claims containing a greater quantity of land than could be decided under the provisions of pre-

vious acts, and it contains this proviso—“provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize said Judges to take conveyance of any claim, annulled by the said Treaty, or the decree ratifying the same by the King of Spain.” The grant to the Duke of Alagon was one of three which the King intended to annul; whether he effectually accomplished that design, is the important point in the case, and in regard to which I abstain from giving an opinion.
Such being the case, I very respectfully suggest, that I do not detect in it a sufficient reason for the issuing of a Proclamation, nor for projecting any measure by which the rights of the United States shall be judicially investigated. I should reluctantly recommend inaction on the part of the President in regard to the latter point, if M Hackley were precluded from an application to Congress for the relief to which he may be entitled. I will retain the documents referred to me for such order or disposition as you may please to make in reference to them or the case to which they relate.
Having disposed of the matter particularly referred to me, I might bring this extended communication to a close. But I avail myself of the opportunity to make a suggestion in regard to the employment of a Law Agent in Florida, and assistant counsel.
The 10" Sec of the act of the 23. of May 1828, authorized the President to appoint a Law Agent to superintend the interests of the United States in Florida. The 11. Sec provided that it should be lawful for the President to employ assistant counsel, (in Florida) if in his opinion the public interest required it, and to allow such counsel, and the District Attorney such compensation as he might think reasonable. The act of the 18" May 1842 * makes an appropriation to the law Agent, assistant Counsel, and District Attorney, under acts providing for settlement of private land claims in Florida, and provides “that no allowance shall hereafter be made for compensation to the law Agent, assistant Counsel, or extra fees to the District Attorney of Florida for attending to the settlement of private land claims in Florida, and the said Office of Law Agent, and power to employ assistant counsel are hereby abolished.”
I have the honor to transmit an extract from a letter addressed to me on the 10" Ult by Thomas Douglas Esq." U.S. Attorney for East Florida," in which he adverts to the great importance, and the number of cases pending, in which the United States are interested, and to the increased labour which has devolved upon him by a reference

back from the Supreme Court of ten cases for further proceedings.
For the reasons set forth by M. Douglas, it is worthy of consideration whether it be not expedient that Congress should not confer upon the President authority to make the District Attorney a suitable compensation for services rendered in the settlement of private land claims.
I also transmit a copy of a letter addressed to me on the 12" Ult by William P. Duval Esq. Law Agent * in the Florida claims in which he states the character of the duties which must be performed for the next two years in regard to these claims. Considering the vast amount of land covered by the claims of M" Hackley and others, the difficulties which will probably arise in carrying out the act of Congress of the 4” of August last and the minute knowledge which Gov: Duval has of the Territory, and of the history of outstanding claims, I feel it my duty to suggest whether the reestablishment of the office of Law Agent for these claims is not required by the true interests of the United States.”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully C.B. PENROSE Sol" of the Treasy TO HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN TYLER President of the United States.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX.]</source>
<place-time>January 16, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. Herewith transmitted is a copy of a letter addressed to this Office by the Delegate from the Territory of Florida, dated 15" inst,"
with a copy of my reply thereto of this date," on the subject of the removal of the Office of the Surveyor General of Florida from Tallahassee to St Augustine.
The seventh section of the Act of 3" March 1823” referred to in my reply, will, it is believed, justify the proposed removal, provided the necessity & propriety of the measure should be urged by proper representations to the Executive from Citizens of the Territory.
The subject is now before you & through your instrumentality &
that of the Delegate, the attention of the Citizens of the Territory

generally and most especially of that portion of the community most interested, can be invited to the consideration of the measure.”
Very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN J. ABERT TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 6")</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Top Eng WASHINGTON Jany 18" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON” J C SPENCER Secretary of War SIR. I have the honor of submitting herewith, a copy of the report
& survey of Captain C Graham of the mouth of the Suwanee, Florida and also of his estimate for emproving the entrance to that River,"
called for by a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 14
instant."
The same resolution also calls for an estimate for the survey of a route for a Rail Road to connect the waters of the S" Johns with those of the Swannee. In illustration of this part of the resolution I have had copied from a map, that portion of the territory of Florida, which would probably be traversed by the proposed road.
The shortest route for a Rail Road between the S" Johns & the Suwannee, would propably be between Pelatka on the former River and Fort Fanning on the latter, and it would I think not deviate much from a direct line between these two places. If the entrance of the Swannee were improved, as proposed by Captain Graham that river would be navigable from the Gulf of Mexico for many miles above Fort Fanning, and Pelatka is now of easy access from the Atlantic It is beleived that a Rail road could be constructed between the

places above named, that need not exceed 80 miles in length. But as it is important that the best line should be selected, and as this cannot be done without the survey of several trial lines, it will be perceived that the expence of the survey will involve more than that of the mere line which the road may occupy. Also Sir such surveys lead invariably to demands for estimate of cost, which last cannot be made without the collection of numerous details The wages of hired men, means of subsistence and of transport are also high there. Moreover the requisite instruments in double setts as there is no getting Instruments repaired in that country, will have to be sent from the Bureau; and the officers of the party, after having completed their field operations will have to return to the Bureau in order to make out the customary reports drawings & estimates, as there is no nearer place at which all the facilities for these duties are to be found.
These considerations constitute the contingencies of such work and enfluence the ultimate expence; and oblige me to say that a less sum than 5000 dollars would propably be found inadequate to the expences of the survey*
I am Sir very Respectfully Yr Ob St
(sd) J J ABERT C C T E
</docbody>
<dochead>DOUGLAS DUMMETT AND OTHERS TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE, Jan 23° 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>To THE HON” DAVID LEVY Delegate in Congress from Florida.
SIR: From recent information received by the undersigned they are apprehensive that the Government may be advised to abolish the office of Keeper of the Public Archieves at Saint Augustine and to remove the documents from that place, hence they deem it their duty to address you urging that you use diligence to represent these measures which—if carried to effect, must necessarily produce, the greatest confusion and the most ruinous consequences.
Among these Archieves (which are voluminous) are contained the evidence of the grants of land in East Florida from the Spanish Government; and in settling the rights under these grants constant

reference is obliged to be made to them, copies of papers certified under the hand of an officer capable of giving them correctly are frequently necessary, and translations of the same into English are requisite to be made by an officer learned in the languages who can render the same with perfection & dispatch. There could be no more fortunate arrangement of this office than exists at present.
It is near one of the Land-Offices, it is in a central position to the granted lands of which it only contains the record and is in the midst of the people by whom it is exclusively consulted. The papers are of the utmost value and importance as containing the titles by which all lands are held in East-Florida—other than those lands held by immediate purchase from the United States,—and these papers require the care and direction of a person who has long become familiar with them.
If a removal of the Archieves be contemplated to be made to Tallahassee, the undersigned fully concur with each other in the opinion that they could not be in a place more inconvenient if removed to Washington—so little is the intercourse and so difficult is the communication, between Tallahassee and East-Florida; and they regard even a removal as a matter of serious moment in view of possible injuries & loss.
With the highest consideration, Sir Your Obedient Servants Douglas Dummett of St Johns C Taylor—of Mosquito John H. Haddock, of Nassau A Patterson of Monroe J. Child Alachua Jos. B. Lancaster of Duval C°
Buckingham Smith—of St. Johns Co Jacob Summerlin of Columbia County John Broward of Duval Co Senators.
J. D. Hart Eastern District Gabriel Priest Eastern District James G Cooper Eastern District John. C. Pelot Eastern District.
[Addressed] Hon David Levy, Delegate. Washington: D.C. [Postmarked] Tallahassee FT Jan 26 Free
[Endorsed] Keeper of Archives from members of Leg from Fast Flo. [On wrapper] Florida Memorials &c of citizens of Flo. respecting office of Keeper of Archives March 3, 1843 ordered to lie on the table"

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF EAST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[January 23, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>To The Honorable, the House of Representatives of the United States, $n Congress assembled.
The undersigned, inhabitants of East Florida, having been informed that the Chairman of your Committee of Ways and Means, has addressed a Letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, enquiring whether the papers in the office of Public Archives in S" Augustine, cannot be transferred to the keeping of the Secretary of the Territory at Tallahassee, Respectfully represent: That these papers are the local records of East Florida; and the exclusive property thereof.
They are (according to the Inventory) contained in four hundred and eighty eight bundles, in which are sixty nine thousand, eight hundred, and eighty documents, mostly written in the Spanish language, some of said documents being made up of various instruments of writing, to the amount of half a quire of paper. They comprise, Wills, testmentary proceedings, Settlements of Estates, Naturalization papers, proceedings at law, Bills of Sale of personal property, Deeds, Petitions to the Spanish Governors for Grants of Land, and proceedings connected with such Grants, with plots and surveys of the same, and all things concerning the rights of property, in East Florida, previous to the cession, to the United States: For which reason a referrence to them as evidence is necessary at every term of Court, and in private transfers of property; the more particularly at this time, when surveys are progressing, and the Country is thrown open for settlement; since they are the original Records of all private Grants of land. They relate to no property West of the River Suwannee, and are not required at Tallahassee, where they might be deranged or lost; while their removal would be oppressive and unjust to the inhabitants of this District, whose property they are; as the delays, inconveniences, and expense, of constant referrence to that distant place, would be most onerous. The act of removal, would be equivalent to transferring the Records of any County, to the Secretary of State at a distance Capital. Wherefore the undersigned, for themselves, and in behalf of their fellow citizens in East Florida, respectfully protest against a removal of these archives, which should forever remain here, for the Security of the rights of property; and we pray your Honorable House, to disapprove any motion that may be made in Congress, in opposition to the wishes herein expressed.
S‘Augustine, EAST FLORIDA, 23" January, 1843.

Abrah" Dupont Mayor of the City of St Augustine P.B. Dumas Clerk County Court, of St.
John's County.
John C. Cleland Justice of the Peace Cm'J. Medicis #
Pedro Benet É
Manuel Crespo. [...#
Mathew Solana J~!
Ant” J. Triay Elias Wallen A.W. Walker Geo: T. Zehnbaun A. H. Cole Venanico Sanchez Ramon Sanchez Lyman Southwick Thomas Andreu Juan S. Pacetty Emanel Andreu Andres Pacetty 2°
Domingo Cercopoly Gabriel Pomar Vicente Pacetty Reuben H. Pinkham K. Goldstein F. L. Palmer Henry Fagan A.J. Noda A. freedlander Joseph Hernandez Peter York James Knowles Francis Dustan William S Reynolds Edmd Wallen Charles E. O'Sullivan Colfred Willis Joseph A. Llambias Jose Canovas Francis J. Cercopoly J.B. Boyd L. Andreu M. Frintz W H Williams John Hannan S.M. Wakeman Obadiah Goddard J. A. Brush Justice of the Peace St. J.C
Tho's Nelson B F Carr & Co Geo Birch Bradford Southwick Antony Hernandez Henry Hedrick James Ramis Franc° Llenora Esteban Arnau Diego Ernandes Henry Wharton Tho" Storrow Brown Antonio Pons Peter Segui Antonio Barsa Andres Lopes John Pellicer Francis J Pellicer Jr Antonio Masters Michael Midicis Bartolo Pacetty John R. Andreu John Rogero Henry L. P. Woolf Ja" Haskins J Cohn G.N. Pappy Francis Sanchez Bartola Pacety Mauricio Sanchez John C. Canovas Paul B. Canovas E. Eveleth Jose E. Pomar Andre Papy

605
J Forman Joseph Manusey Joseph Siddons Michael Neligan Henry Thomas James Riz Joseph A Strischka John Segui Jose Benet Gabriel Hernandez Antonio Lopes Owen Quigley Jose Ma William Capo Jun" Fran" Rogero Antonio Andreu Antonio Pomar Silvro Maranda John Ivers Jacob Bailor Antonio Andreu 2°
F. L. Dancy Philip Weedman Demetrio Salas F. Bridier R D Fontane Ramon Rogero Maurice Abelard Joseph Manucy John Manucy James Edwards Bartolo Ponce Geo. R. Fairbanks Clerk Superior Court Dist. E. Fl Geo. L. Phillips Justice of the Peace James M. Gould Justice of the Peace.
Adolphus L. Heine Justice of the Peace Cha" Byrne M.D.
David R. Dunham John D. Usina Cristobal Bravo P.C. Zylstra Geo. Bartlett S. F. Jones George W. Sprague Joseph Noda Nathaniel Henry Pedro Manucy John M. Fontané
Felipe Gomez S. I. Segui Bernardo Segui-
Francis P Ferrerra Ambrose Cooper Francis Gué
J. Gué
Bartolo Maestre Peter Knowles Geo Center A Magee Manuel Solana Charles Loring John C. Hather James Barker Joseph Foulk Robt. Campbell W" M Whiting Thos Hall Jose Papy P. Hitchcock C. Boyé
Edward Carter James Hurlbert Henry Goslin Saml Northrop Ora Howard Cha" Robion John J Hedrick Gabriel L. Pacetty Jacob Mickler Andrais E. Pacetty George De Medicis Jose Baya John Ponce Jun James Ponce

Ignacio Lopez Sabastian Geanobar John Maestre Pedro Capella Jose T. Andreu Wm G DaViS
W H Simmons Frederick J Quincy Joseph Lopez Joseph Pacetty Joseph Andreu Gabriel Capo Geronimo Alvarez Joseph Pacetty Samel Arey John H. Yates J. R. Evertson G. Humphreys Joseph M. Sanchez Henry W. Groves Bernardo Segui Jr.
Donato Bavo Anthony Canovas D.R. Lopez B Leonardy Juan Capo William Coates Bartolome Leonardy Chas Schultze William Morison Tho" Morison
[Endorsed on cover]
J N Hanson Seymour Halliday Gab' W. Perpall Tho' N. Perpall M E Levy Peter B. Boutan M. H. Tucker James Hernandez George Gianople Juan Andreu Francis Andreu Gabriel Capo 2°
Paul Geiger Jos: S. Sanchez Antonio Andreu Gregorio Bravo Aug Poujaud Michael Usina Joseph Salas Rafael Oliveros John B. Ferrerra L. Joyner Francis Arnau F. P. Cercopoly William Fontane John Carreras Francis N Andreu Bartolo Oliveres James Treacy Pedro V. Seay S H Beecroft Florida Memorials &c * of citizens of Flo.
respecting office of Keeper of Archives March 3, 1843 ordered to lie On the table *
Section 2 of Subscribers to Petition Jas. B. Cole James H. Barr PALATKA East Florida 26 January 1843
Geo. W. Cole Jr W. H. Cohen

Elias Burns Robert Dardes M. Stone T. Steward R. W. Hunt William Donoho Richard Russell Wm H. Prime John Brady Mark Bates Jr Trunay Hindle Wm WestOn Luke Johns John Scott Fenn Peck A. Smith E Hagan Adam Potts A Gantt Tob" Martin Geo. W. Barnes W M Brooke A W Bell J. B. Smith J. Philipe Wm. Clemons John Dick Jas. Stevens S. F. Halliday Meyer Helfer S. Glincks Rufus L. King N. Ellis P White Henry Haskell
[Endorsed] Office of Archives Mem" Citizens of East Flo.
Section 3 of Subscribers to Petition Sam' Russell Jno: Parsons W S Olmsted Thos. B. Russell Ramon Sanchez H C Wilson John Helvenston S. Pritchard Crichton James Dell Francis R. Sanchez Geo: Watson jr.
J D Osteen George McKay Alex McKay George Helvingston James Pettit Christopher H Edwards John M. Bridgers James C. Howsen H. E. Purviance Lemuel Wilson George Pace Jared Everitt Isaiah Floyd John Sparkman John McNeill Thos J. PreWatt John J Knight Lewis Mattair Ja" R. Dyall Henry Hope Daniel Hope Simeon Dell E. L. T. Blake M. Hindley Loyd E. Diclan Tho" M Moodey Joseph Dyall Thomas Hawkins Dan' J Thomas Edw" S Aldrich, M. D.
John Waterston James Hall Louis Alarich

Josiah Seekinger Laburn Burnitt Adam Keil C Frieblerg James S Harvey James Stephens Geo L. Brown P. T. Tucker James Pendarvis E E Migell David Migell Jun"
David Migell Sen”
Joseph Migell Joshua Migell Morgan Migell John Pearce James C Pearce Wm Pearce Jordan Ghaskins WO Thomas Allen Thomas Jesse Thomas N Turnbull Benjamin Gurney Benjamin Moody N M Moody Morgan Prevatt.
V R. Prevatt.
Fisher Ghaskins Ezekiel Weeks Edward Williams Thomas Williams Jacob Williams Isaac Williams Henry Wickwier J B Blanton Sam" W Jones Geo. Helvenston Tho" Chair Bennett M Dell William Motte George W. Sanchez John B. Standley John Baxter Jessee Everitt Ballard Adams William Humphreys John Beard John Bleach junior Willis Bleach William Bleach Clement Tiner John Bleach Seignior James Bleach A. B. Sanchez Warren Harville S. R. Piles T. W. Piles Robert Stafford Council Stokes James Pace Charles S. Dell J W Pearson Cotton Rawls Tho" Colding William Dell John Tucker S Worthington S. Fagan Thos C. Ellis Wm Townsend Section 4 of Subscribers to Petition Jos. L. Smith Jn° Drysdale W. A. Forward C. A M Mitchel W. W. Loring
[Endorsed] Keeper of Archives from Members Bar EF

</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE BRONSON TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA: HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Fl" Jany 25 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>MY DEAR SIR Your letter of the [Blank] inst * is before me—
The project of discontinueing the office of the Keeper of public Archives at St Augustine and removing the records & papers of that office to this place, is one which would be exceedingly deterimental to the people of East Florida—injurious to their interests & productive of great evil and trouble—You are well aware that the records of that office relate principally to the lands of East Florida & in fact to those of the Eastern part of that Dist;—and also to other interests of the people of that District—They alone & those claiming under them have any concern with those records, except the Government of the U.S. and when wanted for Government purposes or by the officers of Gov" they are wanted there—The people of this District have nothing to do with them—no interest in them;—& the proposition to remove our County Records of St Johns County to Tallahassee would not be a whit more absurd or indefensible upon every just principle—Besides if those records are to be removed from the place where they belong and from among the people whose records they are, they might better be taken to Washington or any of the Atlantic cities—Where the Citizens of East Florida could have ready access to them—It is not hazarding too much to say that most of the people of East Florida particularly those living on the Atlantic Coast could get to them or procure copies of them more easily & cheaply & with more facility from Washington than they could from Tallahassee If it is desireable that they should be in the Office of the Surveyor Gen' let that be removed to St Augustine;—That would be a much more rational proposition—
Let “Mahomet go to the Mountain” rather than attemp to bring the Mountain to him—There is not a term of my Court at St Augustine that some of these records are not required particularly in all land cases—.Ihave had frequent occasion also to consult them in reference to the claims for losses of 1812 & 13—they are constantly referred to by the people on the subject of land titles, perhaps nearly as much as the Co: records—You are aware of course that they relate to various other matters besides land titles—and to a period in the history of the province too, when East Florida consisted principally of St Augustine and the Country along the Eastern Coast—
The time may come by and by when they might perhaps be properly transferred to the Land Office of the Dist or the County Clerks office of St Johns County, but that time is not yet—The lands of the District are now being surveyed—and we hope will be settled,—the

private grants which are dotted all over the Dist will now come in requisition & their owners will endeavour to sell them and questions are now and will constantly, for some time to come, be arising about the location & boundaries, which will make a reference to these records necessary—They are all in the Spanish Language and if transferred to another office they would in effect be a sealed Book, to most of those who desired to consult them, unless a good Spanish clerk was employed in the office to take charge of them and certainly such an one who is competent for the task could not be found for less than the present salary of the keeper—
In no point of view therefor can I see that the public interests would be subserved by the proposed change—on the contrary it is forbidden by every argument of sound policy or expediency"—
I am Sir Very Respectfully Yours &c &c I. H. BRONSON
To HON DAVID LEVY Delegate &c Washington I have read the preceding letter; and I concur most fully in all the views therein expressed—
Wm. MARVIN
[Endorsed] Office of Archives Judges Bronson and Marvin JOHN E. DE LA RUA AND E. S. AMOS TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA: HF, 27 Cong., 1 sess.: LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 25* Jany 1843</place-time>
HON. D. LEVY. D. C. Washington SIR, We have lately been informed that an effort has been or would be made to do away with the office of “Keeper of Public Archives at Pensacola” and to remove all the papers to Tallahassee—The citizens of Escambia and Santa Rosa are solely concerned in this matter, and much desire the continuance of the office.
Your best exertions in this behalf would be highly appreciated by them.84
We are sir very respectfully your most ob' Serv"
J. E. DE LA RUA Representative E* County.
E SAMOS Representative St. County
[Addressed] Hon” D. Levy D. C. Washington City [Postmarked]
Tallahassee Flor. Jan 26 Free
[Endorsed] Keeper of Archives Members Leg. from West Flo.

</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E F Jan 30th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR On my return from the interior, some two or three hundred miles up the river St Johns, I received Yours of the 31* of Dec,”
and am not at all surprised at the information received by You, of complaints to the department of the unnecessary annoyance I give to the people, but I will assure You that these complaints do not come from the majority of the inhabitants of Florida; I will convince You at some future day that gentlemen of high standing, who own large tracts of land justly and honorably, are desirous to have a check put upon those speculators who are cutting timber of different descriptions upon public land, as it is spoiling the market for their own—But I will send You a book of the confirmation of grants, by which You will perceive, what description of persons are sending in these serious complaints—I will here state that I have not yet obtained quite all, and of course the book is partially imperfect as there have been so many differents clerks in the Superior Court for the last twenty years: and what I have obtained has been attended with much vexation and labor. but little expense.—I have been above lake Harney, and find that there is a great deal of valuable timber bordering upon the different lakes and inlets, which has not yet been disturbed, by the setler, but wherever there is any valuable timber discovered, there are persons who bring forward large Spanish grants from twenty to forty thousand odd acres to cover all such lands.—
Those grants are principally confirmed and purport to have been surveyed under different dates, Some up as late as 1821, but where I
have examined up in that section of the country, I cannot find the mark of an axe, or any sign to show that a surveyor has ever been upon the ground. And the locations are variously called for, from twenty miles from St Augustine, forty miles from some other place, bordering on some long pond, or cornering upon some cabbage tree, and Florida abounds in both, but the holders of these grants never fail whenever they find a tract containing timber, to sell and say that their grant covers it.—I would suggest that unless there should be some way devised by the department, or some act of congress, compelling holders of these grants, to have them located and surveyed, within some reasonable time, but in all cases compelling this fulfilment, before they are permitted to take posession of the lands, and sell the timber therefrom, the country will always be in a state of confusion, and no man can buy lands from the government in safety.
As they will be liable every day to be covered with thes manufactured

grants.—I find in some instances a man thinks nothing of skipping some eight or ten miles, and we may say fifty for the purpose of getting such land as suits his views. and in some cases where there has been an order from the court for some six or eight thousand acres to be surveyed, and the starting point named in the order, and it is ascertained that by going by the true point of the compass according to the decision of the court, it does not comprise such lands as they wish to be included within their lines, they have varied to my certain knowledge from forty to fifty degrees. from the designated line to accomplish their object,—When I interfere to prevent such alterations, and save the land and timber which belongs to the general government, this is their complaints of unnecessary annoyance—But I have pleasure in stating that I have succeeded to a great extent in checking their progress, and I will insure You that I shall live up to the letter of my instructions as far as my ability will permit—I will ask if I shall consider Yellow pine and Cypress to be included in the description of Ship timber, as there are large quantities of the former shipped every day from Florida for planking and decking merchant vessels, as it is esteemed superior to that of the same growth in any other section of the country and I should suppose it would be more suitable than any other kind of pine for the gun decks of our Ships of war.—My surveyor has arrived and I shall start immediately for Mosquito to look after those chimney corner or floating surveys in the vicinity of Indian River—I have not the least doubt that every foot of land where Palmer & Ferris are now cutting Live oak, belongs to the general government.—Concerning affairs at Mosquito, I will for Your information enclose the copy of a letter from Mr Walker collector of customs at St Augustine,” and beg to recommend the same for Your consideration.—I will here state that I consider Mr Douglass”
to be a speculator in lands to a considerable extent—He holds in one instance, and interest, in connection with his friends, in a tract to the amount of Sixteen thousand acres,—The claim that I refer to will be found on page 137 grant No 747 in the book of confirmations—I do not consider that any person who is speculating in lands can do justice in defending the rights of governments against speculators in the same, and I will ask if I can be permitted to employ some attorney who would do justice to the government at the may term. If it is not in Your power to grant me this request, I shall for my own satisfaction employ one at my own expense. Permit me to say that I am well aware that if I wish to get along smoothly with Mr Douglass and his friends, I should suffer every thing to slip along unnoticed and then

I should be “hale fellow well met” but I mean to report the facts as near as I can get at them let the consequences be what they may.
I will draw. Your attention to the notice of the Surveyor general requesting all those who have private land claims, to bring them forward by the 15" of march next, to enable him to designate the same from government lands.—I beg to be permitted to make a few remarks, and give You my opinion upon that subject—I am so well acquainted with the situation of those grants. I am convinced that very little attention will be paid to the notice by holders, with very few exceptions, as they are so well aware that their grants cannot be located as set forth in the book of confirmations, and permit me to suggest to You the propriety of reccommending to Congress that a law be passed to appropriate a certain sum of money for the purpose of locating and surveying those private grants. All those that should be brought forward in [Blank] Years, to be done at the expense of the government, and after that period the holders should bear their own expense—and likewise it should be made some offence as may be deemed most advisable, for any man to take possession of or remove timber from lands before he shall have them located and surveyed according to the call of the grant and its confirmation.
for unless there is some act of that kind the grantees will not bring forward their claim, and the country will always be unsettled—
And it not to be expected that those who have taken the government contract at $4 per mile can take sufficient pains and precaution and justice to the government, if he has to locate and survey those grants within his contract price, for You will see the difficulty he will have to encounter by perusing the book of confirmations, and it will be his interest of course to survey out the grant of an individual whereever he may say it lays, without the trouble and expense of hunting out the true boundaries,—I am convinced that no man can pay his expenses by surveying that part of Florida which is now offered to be given out in contracts at $4 per mile, and of course whoever contracts for the same must fail—
I enclose to You a Bond which I have taken from Mr Boushell,”
concerning Timber which he has purchased of Maj Taylor and other settlers bordering upon Lake Monroe–It is proper for me to state, that he has agreed to pay Maj Taylor twelve and a half cts per cubic foot for timber standing, and ten cents for timber purchased of others”

I would request to be put in posession, as soon as practicable of one of the latest editions of the map of Florida, that I think published under the direction of Gen Worth.
I remain Your obt Servt With due respect H. L. THISTLE
Agent for the preservation of Timber &
Wood upon the Public Lands in E Florida To A PUPSHUR Secretary of US Navy
|Endorsed] Thistle Jany 30/43 file T 85 Feb 7 Call Bushnell's bond missing RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[February 2, 1843]</place-time>
Whereas the people of this Territory, though not Members of any of the states of the Union, are yet citizens of the United States and, entitled, so far as their position will allow, to all the rights and privileges of freemen.
And whereas it is against the spirit of the American Institutions, as plainly declared in the Constitution of the United States and ante republican, that the highest and most important officers of the Territorial Government, their Governors and Judges, as has been frequently the case, should be selected by, and these offices filled by strangers, unacquainted with the character, laws, habits customs and institutions of the people whose dearest interest are entrusted to their charge.
And whereas the excuse for such appointment in the early existence of the Territory, on account of the sparceness of the population and the difficulities of finding suitable persons therein, no longer exists and persons fully competent to perform the important duties pertaining to said offices to the satisfation of the people can be found among the citizens of this Territory as experience has clearly demonstrated, Resolved therefore, that the Congress of the United States be and it is hereby earnestly invoked to amend and alter the organic law, so far as to permit the Choice and election by the people and Legislature of this Territory, of the Governor Judges and such other officers as they may deem most expedient.
[Endorsed] Memorial and Resolution Praying Congress to alter the Organic law so as to give the Territory of Flor the Right of Electing Governors Judges & other officers—Adopted 2* February Unanimously by the Senate T T Long Sec Senate Adopted by the House

</docbody>
<dochead>Unanimously Feb ° 1843 H Archer Sec House Repr Ordered by the Senate to be sent by the Secretary to the Hon" D Levy * Attest T T Long Sec Senat ASBURY DICKINS TO WILLIE E. MANGUM 96</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SENATE, February 7, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to communicate to you, to be laid before the Senate, copies of the Acts of the Legislative Council of Florida, transmitted in compliance with the Act of Congress of 18" of June, 1834.”
By the letter of the Secretary of the Territory, which is enclosed, it will be seen that he had overlooked the act of Congress above referred to; but that he has now sent a copy of Duval's compilation, containing all the public acts of the Council at present in force, passed before the year 1840, and pamphlet copies of all the subsequent acts.
I have the honor to be, Your most obedient servant, ASBURY DICKINS, THE HON. W. P. MANGUM President pro tempore of the Senate.
[Endorsed] 27* Cong 3 Sess Letter from the Secretary of the Senate, communicating a letter from the Secretary of the Territory of Florida, with copies of the acts of the Legislative Council of that Territory.
transmitted in compliance with the Act of Congress of June 18, 1834, 1843 Feb. 7. Referred to the Com: on the Judiciary.”
[Enclosure:ALS]
Secretary DuVal to Asbury Dickins Office of the Secretary TALLAHASSEE Jan'y 25" 1843
SIR, The laws passed by the Legislative Council of this Territory, at its last session, were distributed in the manner provided for by an act of said Council, approved February 13, 1831.” The Act of Congress, referred to by you, requiring the Secretary of the Territory to send a printed copy of the laws to the Secretary of the Senate, was overlooked by me, and I am glad that you have called my attention to it. I regret, however, that it is out of my power, to transmit, as you request, “a complete copy of the acts of the Legislative Council, * No action on this resolution has been noted.

which have been already printed”, as the printed copies of the acts for several of the years, intervening between those of 1825 and 1836, have been exhausted. I send you, therefore, a Copy of Duval's Compilation, containing all the public acts, now in force, passed by the Legislative Council, prior to 1840, and printed Copies of the laws passed subsequent thereto.
Should you desire it, I will transmit copies of all the acts, published in pamphlet form, from the organization of the Territory to the present time, as fully as the same can be furnished by my office."
Very Respectfully Your ob" serv"
THO: H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida ASBURY DICKINS Esq. Sec'y of Senate.
</docbody>
<dochead>SECRETARY DUVAL TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE Feb'y 9* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON: DAVID LEVY Delegate from Florida.
DEAR SIR, At the request of my Father, I transmit you a certified copy of a Preamble & Resolution of the Legislative Council, in relation to his claim against the Govm'—
I have also sent copies to the chairmen of the respective Committees on claims, in the two Houses of Congress.
An error, I think, was committed by the member who drew the Peramble, in fixing the amount of the verdict at $18.058—As well as my recollection serves, it should have been $18.250. I presume, however, the mistake is a matter of no consequence, as the Committees in Congress, before whom the claim now is, will be governed by the Record.
Hoping that the expression of feeling on the part of our Legislature, contained in the Preamble & Resolution, may have a beneficial effect, and that with your assistance, the claim may be favorably reported upon, at the present session of Congress.
I remain Yours Very truly THO: H. DUWAL
[Enclosure:AC]
Report of Committee on Public Accounts of the Legislative Council
[February 9, 1843)
The Committee on Public Accounts, to whom was referred a Preamble and Resolution relative to the claim of William P. DuVal

upon the General Government, ask leave to report the same amended, as follows;
Whereas a verdict was rendered in the District Court of the United States, held at Tallahassee, at their April Term 1840, in a suit lately pending therein, instituted by the said United States against W P.
DuVal in favor of said DuVal for the sum of Eighteen thousand &
fifty eight Dollars, being found due to him by the Jury for services rendered as Superintendant of Indian Affairs in Florida, from 1822
to 1834, and for advances of money made by him during the twelve years of his superintendance, and for expenses incurred in supplying the Indians with provisions:
And whereas, this Legislative Council, in common with the people of Florida, appreciating the services so rendered by the said DuVal, as one of the first Governors of the Territory, and in recollection of the sacrafices made and losses sustained by him, feel an anxious desire that justice should be done him in the premises, and that his claim shall be no longer delayed.
Be it therefore Resolved, by the Governor and Legislative Council, that the early attention of the Congress of the United States be earnestly invoked to this subject, and that our Delegate be requested to use his exertions, to procure from Congress the speedy adjustment and settlement of said claim.
Resolved, also, that a copy of this Resolution be furnished our Delegate, to be laid before Congress.”
JOSEPH B. LANCASTER Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Adopted by the House 31 January 1843
H. ARCHER Secretary of House Rep.
GEO. WALKER President of the Senate Adopted by the Senate 26" January 1843
THOMAS T. LONG Secretary of the Senate Approved 9” Feb. 1843 R K CALL Gov' of Florida Office of the Secretary TALLAHASSEE. Florida I Thomas H. DuVal, Secretary of the Territory of Florida, do hereby certify that the foregoing Preamble & Resolutions are truly copied from the original on file in my office.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and Seal Affixed the Seal of said Territory, this the ninth day of February A. D. Eighteen hundred & forty three.
THO: H. DUVALSec'y of Florida

</docbody>
<dochead>JUDGE CARMACK TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>APALACHICOLA 17* February 1843</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR Your communication of the 14* December last”
was forwarded from this place to me at Tallahassee during the session of the Court of Appeals. I have obtained from the clerks in the diferent counties in which courts are held in the Apalachicola District the number of cases which have been disposed of and which are yet pending under the bankrupt law. The result of that information is as follows Twenty persons have been discharged and Eighteen applications for discharge are still pending In all the above cases the applications were made by the bankrupts themselves—none on the part of creditors.
There has been but one case in which the discharge was opposed, and in no case has it been refused.
As congress has probably ere this repealed the bankrupt law it is perhaps unnecessary for me to reply to the balance of your communication. I will however remark that I know of no modification of the law which I think would be useful. Its effects, in this District, have been to restore to business and active employment a number of useful and enterprising men who, until their discharge, were in a state of hopeless indebtedness. I know of no evils which have resulted from the operation of the law I am respectfully your obdt sevt.
4
S W CARMACK [Addressed] Hon Daniel Webster Washington city D.C. [Postmarked] Apalachicola F. Ty Feb 19 Free
[Endorsed] Rec Mar 4th Mr Dickins S. W. Carmack SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Territory TALLAHASSEE Feb'y 21” 1843</place-time>
HON: DANIEL WEBSTER Secretary of State SIR, By the 2nd Section of the Act of Congress, passed 29" August
1842, entitled “An Act to provide for the Settlement of Certain accounts for the support of Government in the Territory of Wiskonsin, * Not found.

and for other purposes”,” it is made “the duty of the Secretary of each Territory, to prepare the Acts passed by the Legislature, for publication, and to furnish a Copy thereof, to the public printer of the Territory, within ten days after the passage of each Act.”
Beleiving that I will not be able to perform the labor imposed upon me by the above recited Act, during the present Session of our Legislature, and fearing that some blame may attach to me for a Seeming neglect of my duty, I beg leave to make the following explanation, in order that you may understand the difficulty in which I am placed.
By a Resolution of the Legislature, passed in Feb’y 1841, the Hon” W* Marvin, Judge of the Southern Judicial District, was appointed to revise the laws of this Territory—This task has been Completed, and he has submitted to our present Legislative Council, a Revised Code, which is now being adopted with, I beleive, but few amendments.
In addition, therefore, to the ordinary legislation of the Council, there will be this Revised Code of Judge Marvin's, forming, as I
understand it will, when printed, a volume of Six or Seven hundred pages; the whole of which, by the Act of Congress referred to, it is made my duty to furnish a Copy of, in a very limited time, to the public printer of the Territory. The greater portion of this work must be performed, too, during the Session of the Legislature, when the ordinary duties of my office, of themselves, keep me almost constantly engaged.
Was there nothing more than the ordinary legislation of the Council, I could accomplish the labor, in the time specified by the Act of Congress.
I trust, Sir, that the above Statement of facts will exonerate me from any blame if the laws of the Territory, passed at the present Session of the Legislature, should not be published and distributed as early as usual. My inability, to perform the duty imposed upon my by the Act of Congress, within the time limited, will not prevent me, however, from doing so in as short a time, as the magnitude of the task, and the necessity of my other duties, will permit."
Very Respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida
[Endorsed] Recd Mar 4 Mr Dickins T. H. Duval

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to Members of Cong., Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT February 24" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY H. R.
SIR I received this morning your letter of the 22* instant," & in reply have the honor to remark, that upon inquiry at the Office of the 1* Auditor in relation to M'. Camp's accounts as Marshal for the Middle District of Florida, it appears that a letter was addressed to you by him on the 23" inst.” to which letter, pemit me respectfully to refer you as presenting a full statement of the result of their second examination, and avail myself of the occasion to add, that on the 21"
inst. a warrant issued in favor of M" Camp as Marshal for the $2,000, on account of expenses of Courts of the U. S. &c, and on the same day a letter was written to him stating that the cause of the delay in replying to his letter of the 28" ult” "was the non arrival of his accounts, apprising him of the existing balance against him and the necessity of his transmitting further accounts and vouchers of his expenditures for examination and settlement and informing him that as soon as they were receivd and I was informed of the fact, additional funds as it was deemed that the public interest required, and the state of his balance should justify, would be immediately remitted to him. It is material to observe, that it is essential to a safe and accurate course of this branch of the public business, that all applications for funds when received from Marshals of the U. S. should have reference to the state of their balances—embracing also any difficulties which may have occurred in procuring the vouchers—the balance as found at the previous settlement and the amount of accounts and vouchers received since that settlement—with this explanation of the circumstances."
I have the honor to remain Very respectfully, Sir, Your obt Servant W FORWARD Secy of the Treasury 
</docbody>
<dochead>PALMER AND FERRIS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>New Smyrna EAST FLORIDA. February 25th. 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. The unpleasant duty has again devolved upon us of being under the necessity of complaining of the U. S. Live oak Agents'

interferance with our contract with your Depmt. for timber.—His course is such that we have come to the conclusion to abandon our contracts with you, unless you should see fit to arrest his malicious and uncalled for inteferance with our duties as Contractors.—we have submitted to his acts of oppression (which he has predicated on Your authority,) until we can bear it no longer, and in justice to ourselves must take this course to avoid the ruinous consequences attending our fulfilment of the engagements to your Depmt; while subject to the whims & caprices of Mr. Thistle.—We were in hopes that we should have no further trouble with him, as we had this winter carried on our operations in a Section of the Country where there is little, or no public Land, and as our timber had been cut and purchased from confirmed Spanish Grants where the owners had actually been in possession for Years.—
The timber thus cut (at an unusually heavy expense) has been shipped to fulfil our contract at the Norfolk Navy Yard, & would have been on its way there, but for its detention by Mr. Thistle, who persists in detaining the vessel until he has ascertained by actual Survey of a large portion of the country whether the timber was cut on public land or not—
All that he has to warrant the detention is his own vague suspicions, which are groundless, as the country where we have cut is covered for Seventeen, or Eighteen miles with numerous confirmed Grants whose boundaries actually call for each others lines, without leaving a single particle of public Land between them; and again, he was notified by us early in the fall that we intended cutting here, & requested to make what examinations he deemed necessary, so as not to give us any detention with our timber when it was ready for shipping.—That this detention is malicious, there remains not the least question of doubt, as the most respectable and undoubted proof can be adduced that he made the assertion “that he would seize the timber whether it was cut on public land or not.”—
We would Sir appeal to your generossity & justice, to know whether we are to submit to this uncalled for oppression or not; We have already sustained heavy losses enough through Mr. Thistles' mallice
& injustice, and are determined to suffer no more;—His most uncalled for acts of oppression & userpation of power are predicated upon Official authority, & even his acts of the most illegal character he avers. receives Your sanction.—You are certainly aware Sir, that we do not stand alone in making these complaints; other charges emanating from the most respectable authority, & substanciated by the most abundant proof have been preferred against him, & at this moment lie in the Archives of the Govmt.

We will however, trespass no further on your time, & close this communication by requesting to be informed how we are to act in regard to the shipment of our timber already cut, and that Mr.
Thistle may receive corresponding instructions." -
By a former Regulation of Your Depmt. where disputes arose in regard to timber, no detention was given, but the timber was shipped to its proper destination & if upon proper investigation the timber was found to have been cut upon public lands the price was deducted from the Contract, & if otherwise the full amount of the contract price was paid.—If the Depmt. should deem it fit to revive this regulation, we would cheerfully be governed by it.
Any communciation will reach us if directed to Jacksonville East.
Florida 12–
Respfy we remain Sir Yr. Obdt. Svts.
PALMER & FERRIS
HONL. A. P. UPSHER Secretary of the Navy Washington, D.C.
P. S. We enclose the copy of the certificate of the Inspector of the customs certifying as to the detention of the vessel & cargo *—
[Endorsed] Palmer & Ferris Feb 25/43 file P 183 March 20 Call VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>St Augustine—E. FLORIDA 27 Feb: 1843.</place-time>
SIR/ I have now the honor to inform you that since my visit to Augustine, I have become thoroughly satisfied, in view of all the facts, which are well known at the Department, that the office of Surveyor General ought to be located here"—If therefore it shall be your pleasure to recommend that change—& His Excellency the President shall see fit to sanction it—I am pleased to be able to declare my entire acquiessence. I would prefer, however, that the movement should not take place until the next Fall, which will allow ample time for action on the part of the people.
I am Very Respy Y” ob" Sv"
V. Y. CONWAY Svr Gen"
COL. THO" H. BLAKE Comm” &c.

[Endorsed] D St Augustine Flor. 27 Feb: 1843 W. Y. Conway S.G.
States that he is thoroughtly Satisfied that the office of the Surveyor General should be located at St Augustine, would prefer that the removal should not take place until the next fall. Mar 13, 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: DS"]</source>
<place-time>[February, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON* THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY of the United States.
The petition of the undersigned residents of The District of East Florida respectfully shews, That W. Y. Conway Esq" has been appointed Surveyor General of the United States for the Territory of Florida, and his office is now located in the City of Tallahassee in the Middle district of Florida. Your petitioners beg to represent that the Archives of all lands in this district are deposited in the City of S” Augustine: That all the plats and Surveys of Spanish Grants and Donations are to be found there, and nearly all the owners of the said donations and grants, as well as the occupants under the Armed Occupation Bill" are residing, or are represented within the Eastern district, And further, That all, or nearly all; The tracts of Land yet unsurveyed are within the said District.
Your petitioners would further represent that to Substantiate the private claims to Lands in East Florida, in the manner required by order of the Commissioners of the General Land office as published by The Surveyor General, much inconvenience, and great Expense would be incurred by the owners thereof in consequence of the remote residence of the Surveyor General.
Therefore your petitioners pray that the Office of the Surveyor General of the United States for the Territory of Florida, may be removed to the District of East Florida."
And your petitioners will ever pray &c.
James W. Bryant Samuel Blackwood A. Davis Hall. William Hickman Henry D. Holland M.D. S. D. Fernandez G D Miller Hiram S. Farrar A W Beebe Henry Barnard jr William Roberts Hampton Bilbo

A. M. Reed Tho" O. Holmes Jno. M Pons A A Canova Wm. H Farrar Cha" Merrick Charles Summers Mills O. Burnham Rodney Dorman Charles D. Smith James Armstrong Samuel Gibson Lawrence Ryan George Grouarde C. C. Adams H Holgerson F. W. Sam Jno. H. Gunby H. R. Blanchard Jn L. Doggett Ossian B. Hart R. B. Canova A. B. Canova Geo. Rex M.D.
Hammond Sibley J. Middleton Robert Jack D Ferris W. W. Douglas David L. Palmer Wm S Donaldson Wm. Grothe Eugene Lasserre Wm D Ward Oscar B. Hart David McCuen THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO GOVERNOR CALL AND
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT March 6* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HIS EXCELLENCY R. K. CALL, Governor of Florida GENERAL W. J. WORTH. Pilatka, Florida.
Sir, I transmit herewith a copy of a Resolution of the House of Representatives relative to the services of Florida militia to be reported to Congress at the next session.” Please to give the Department your views as to the best measures to be adopted to obtain the information required. It would be desirable to have such reports and evidence as to enable the Department and Congress to dispose of all Florida claims for militia services under this call.
J. C. S.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON March 7. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. The orange groves of Florida have been visited during the past year by the ravages of an insect, which threatens the total destruction of that branch of production. It is so important an

interest in a national and local point of view that I have thought you would not deem the suggestion and request I am about to make unworthy the attention of the Department. There is no doubt that if the ravages of this insect can be arrested, the peninsula of Florida is capable of furnishing completely the market of the whole Union with the orange, lemon, & lime. The insect is of the coccus family, very minute, and covers the bark leaves & fruit, exhausting the tree of its juices, & destroying it to the root. Whole groves have been SWept.
It is understood that a similar insect once appeared in the Groves of the South of Europe, and my desire is that you would do us the favor to address a circular to the consuls and diplomatic agents at all the European posts where the orange is cultivated for the purpose of ascertaining an accurate history of this plague, and of obtaining any works, that may have been published in those countries in respect to the culture and diseases of the orange.
The insect it is thought was introduced with some plants of the orange imported from China. It would therefore be probably in the power of the Dip. Agent recently appointed to that country to obtain useful information upon the subject."
Please address me at Tallahassee, Flo.
I have the honor to be Respectfy Yr obt st D LEVY
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER Secy of State.
[Endorsed] Ansr., that the request will be complied with—Send copies of this letter &c—25 copies made Rec Mar 16 Mr Ringgold D. Levy PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE
</docbody>
<dochead>COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess.:AC]</source>
<place-time>[March 15, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas, it hath been made known to this Legislative Council, by petition of the Chamber of Commerce of the city of Apalachicola,”
that they have petitioned Congress for an appropriation to deepen the Straight Channel in the Bay of Apalachicola, whereby vessels of greater burden can be brought to the wharf of said city—And whereas, the growing and commercial importance of the said city of Apalachicola, enables her to ask with great justice for the efficient

aid of the General Government, in order to develope more surely and speedily her great resources and commercial advantages—And whereas, the exports and imports from and to the said Bay of Apalachicola, are continually and surely increasing—And whereas, her commerce is greatly embarassed in consequence of the filling up of the channel aforesaid–And it is believed that a comparitively small appropriation would effectually remove the cause of embarassment—
Be it therefore resolved, That the Legislative Council most respectfully memorialize Congress that this prayer of the said petitioners, to wit; the petition of the Chamber of Commerce of the city of Apalachicola, may be granted—and the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars be appropriated by Congress, from the Treasury of the United States, for the deepening and widening of the Straight Channel in the Bay of Apalachicola, to be expended under such appointment and superintendance as Congress may direct—and that a copy of this preamble and resolution be forwarded to the Secretary of the Treasury, and to our Delegate in Congress, respectfully requesting him to lay the same before Congress, and to use his influence and exertion to have said appropriation made—
Approved 15" March–1843–
I Certify that the foregoing is a true Copy of the Preamble and Resolutions, Adopted by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, and approved by His Excellency the Governor
15th March 1843
H. ARCHER Sect” of H* Rep.
[Endorsed] Florida Legislature Deepen Channel in the Bay of Apalachacola Dec. 28, 1843. Com. of Commerce.” Mr. Levy THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters Sent, PLC, Bk. 8 *]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE March 17, 1843.</place-time>
W" H. SIMMON's Esq Register St Augustine E. Florida SIR: It appears from your communication of the 20" January last,” that several applications have been made at Your Office for

Permits, under the Armed Occupation Act “by persons who have not been on the lands described in their Notices.”*—
You express your “conviction that many abuses might arise from granting Permits in Such cases”—State that you have “refused to issue them,” until you “can receive the directions of the Department on the Subject,”—and that it has appeared to you “that the Bonafide Settler who has gone into the wilderness, and is there making a location, may from the difficulty of Communicating with the Office, be deprived of his rights, or unfairly speculated on; should others be allowed to obtain Permits without personally Selecting the lands they apply for”. &c It is necessary for you to interpose every proper means to guard against, and prevent the abuses which you apprehend, or any others likely to occur in operations under the Act, and by a faithful and rigid execution of your duties, to protect the rights of all bonafide Applicants.
The Construction given by you however has excited, as I am advised much dissatisfaction, and produced inconvenience to Emigrants—
I have therefore in regard to this matter carefully looked into the Act, the 1* Stipulation of which is to this effect. “That Said settler shall obtain from the Register of the Land Office, in the District in which he proposes to Settle, a permit describing, as particularly as may be practicable, the place where his or her Settlement is intended to be made”: &c.
Neither this provision of the law, nor any other Section of it, appears to render it indispensably pre requisite to the obtaining of a permit, that the Applicant himself should in the first instance actually go upon the land he desires to Settle—I see no objection to the granting of a permit, when a Bona fide Applicant can so far Satisfy himself as regards the Situation &c. of the land he proposes to Settle, as to enable him to file the requisite Notice Accompanied by, 1" The Applicants own Affidavit shewing whether he is “the head of a family,” or “a single man over eighteen years of age, able to bear Arms,” and the period when he became a resident of Florida
2" by evidence, in cases where he became a resident of Florida on the 4” Aug 1842 [the date of the Act].” that he is not the owner, of 160 Acres of land at the time he proposes to Settle.
3" by the Affidavit of some credible witnesses—who from personal Knowledge can make the following Oath. “I aver that the settlement herein intended is not ‘within two miles of any permanent

military post of the United States, established and garrisoned at the time of Such Settlement, and that the same is not Known or believed to interfere with any private claim that has been duly filed with any of the Boards of Commissioners, surveyed or unsurveyed, confirmed or unconfirmed.”—See page 2" of printed Instructions, and who can Comply with the requirements of Note 3" on said page.
A Notice thus Supported, will be a Substantial compliance with the law and instructions, the testimony of any credible witness in the 3"
requirment above, being quite as Satisfactory in this particular as the Affidavit of the Applicant himself—
In adopting this course, as a general rule of Action, in all such cases, the difficulty complained of as to your construction of the Act, will be avoided, and like privileges will be extended to every one who may wish to come within its purview.”—
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
N.B. I will thank you to advise T. S. Brown Esq. of S" Augustine of the Substance of this Communication as he addressed this Office on the Subject. T. H. B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters Sent, PLC, Bk. 8]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, March 18*1843</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER OF THE LAND OFFICE St Augustine Florida.
SIR: In a communication to me of the 3' U1* * from A W. Walker Esq, referring to the Armed Occupation Act” I am advised that the
“Officers of the land Office at St Augustine]” conceive that a Settlement made by Slaves, fulfilling all the requisitions of the law is not within the meaning of the act, and does not entitle their owners to the 160 acres of land offered by Government” &c.
In this view of the matter, I fully concur with the Land Officers, and the Register will consequently adhere to this decision in the premises—
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner

SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[FSL: Govr. Exec. Let. Bk.: M30]
Office of the Secretary TALLAHASSEE March 18th 1843
To/ THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY of the United States SIR, I have the honor to enclose herewith, an Abstract of the members of the Legislative council of this Territory, shewing the amount of their pay and mileage, and containing their receipts for the same, for the session commencing on the 2" January 1843, and ending on the 16th inst.” In a few days, I will transmit a list of the Officers, and others employed in the service of the Legislature, together with the receipts for their certificates to be furnished by me.
I beg leave to call your attention to the enclosed copy of a communication addressed by me to the Speaker of the Ho. of Rep. of this Territory,” asking for certain information in regard to the Hon:
Jno M. Palmer, the member from Hillsborough Co, and also to that of the Secretary of the House, written in reply thereto, under a Resolution adopted by the House. Beleiving that I could not, without a violation of my duty, furnish to M Palmer a certificate for compensation as a member of the House, in case he should apply for one, I thought it best to obtain from the House itself, the facts in relation to his absence, and lay them before you. In addition to the information contained in the letter of the Sec'y of the House, I deem it my duty to state that Mr Palmer holds the Office of Inspector of the Customs at Tampa Bay, and the necessity for his attention to the duties of that Office was, most probably, the cause of his early and continued absence from the Legislature. M. Palmer has not, as yet, applied to me for his certificate. Should he do so, I shall withhold it, until advised by you, whether or not it is proper that it should be given to him—Upon this point, I beg leave to ask for instructions at as early a date as your convenience will permit.”
Very Respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida AUGUSTUS W. WALKER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD. Lets. from Collectors on Rev. Marine:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Collector’s office ST: AUGUSTINE March 24" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: I have already once unsuccessfully applied for a Revenue Cutter, and the power of appointing two additional, permanent, 30 See ante, p. 565, n.

Inspectors, with fixed salaries, one to be stationed at Musquito inlet, the other at Indian river or Hillsborough inlet, within this District;
yet I am so well persuaded, that if one at least of these measures is not resorted to, the Government must be defrauded, that I feel bound to renew my application.—
This District from, without including, the mouth of the river St:
Johns, to and including the outlet of Indian river offers an extent of coast of upwards of two hundred miles, the country bordering on which is rapidly settling, both from the inducements held out by the Government and the cessation of Indian hostilities. Five rivers, the North, Matanzas, Halifax, Hillsborough and Indian Rivers, all navigable by vessels drawing from six to sixteen feet of water, run in a direction parallel with the coast, along this whole distance, at no point more than three and at some half and even a quarter of a mile from the beach; forming four different inlets: St Augustine, this port, Matanzas inlet; eighteen miles south, seven to nine feet deep, Musquito inlet, seventy miles south of this place, ten to thirteen feet deep, and lastly Indian river, otherwise called Hillsborough inlet, some two hundred miles south, navigable also by vessels of light draught of water, when these facilities together with the vicinity of the Island of Cuba and the English Bahamas are well considered, it is not without good reason, I fear, that I apprehend attempts may be made to defraud the revenue, attempts which could scarcely be known, and if known, with still more difficulty resisted, by a single Inspector, paid only when employed, stationed at this port, and myself the only revenue officer in so extensive and exposed a District.—This I can not better illustrate than by pointing to a vessel “the Nimrod” a brig of 19740/95 tons, which had for nearly a whole month been at Musquito inlet loading with live oak, before I became aware of her arrival; as soon as possessed of the information, I had ascertained, through the live oak agent, that the Brig was loaded, if not entirely, at least almost so, with live oak, cut from lands belonging to the United States, I caused her after considerable difficulty, to be seized on the 3" instant; but from my absolute want of means it has been impossible, both to myself and the United States Marshal, to remove the vessel to this place, though both the Collectors of St: Mary's and Savannah have been applied to for the aid of the revenue vessels under their control.—Yet Musquito Inlet is comparatively close to St: Augustine, had anything occurred at Indian river it must have been all but impossible to have effected anything. I would therefore most respectfully suggest that this District be furnished with a revenue cutter, should this, I beleive, allow me to say the best plan not be followed, then that I be furnished with, or authorized to purchase a boat

of sufficient burthen to go to sea when necessary, say from ten to fifteen tons, that I have also power to employ permanently two men and one boy with additional men when requisite, to man her, allowing on of the men sufficient pay to insure trustworthiness and some knowledge of navigation, to whom the powers of an Inspector might also be given.—At present either of these plans would suffice; otherwise I should be permitted to employ two additional permanent Inspectors, with fixed salaries & the use of a row boat, one as already stated to be stationed at Musquito Inlet the other at Indian river.
I hope that I may be excused for taking up so much of your valuable time, but I would have failed in what I conceived to be my duty, had I not laid before you, Sir, facts which, I think, call loudly for an early consideration.—
I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect Your obedient Servant A.W. WALKER Collector To THE/ HONORABLE JOHN C. SPENCER Secretary of the treasury Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Coll" St Augustine On the necessity of Insprs at the mouth of New River and Musquito Inlet—or a Rev Boat to be employed in Cruizing in those waters—If the Savannah Cutter was directed, as I think she ought to be to extend her cruizes as far South as New River every month—& to Examine the intermediate inlets it would obviate the necessity of the measures suggested by the Coll" Respy Sub" J M*G jr * 7 Apl 43. answer according to the above Suggestion—J. C S S-199 April 7 *—McGinnis CHARLES B. PENROSE TO THOMAS DOUGLAS
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 13]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Sol" of the Treasury March 25" 1843</place-time>
SIR Soon after the receipt of your letter of December 10* *
advising me of the situation of the various Suits still pending, involving the title to land Claims under the Florida Treaty the matter was submitted to the President, and by his direction " a Communication was made to Congress, urging that body to make a proper provision for the payment of Counsel to attend to them on behalf of the U.

States *—The President directs me in his note “in the event of no action on the Subject by Congress to give express directions to the United States Attorney in Florida to attend to them, as they are of great interest to the U States”—I am sorry to say, that, altho’ the Committees of Congress to whom the matter was referred were were unanimously in favour of it, and reported a bill on the Subject, it Could not be reached on the Calender, and Sleeps with the unfinished business of the Session *—I have therefore to Say in pursuance of the direction of the President that it is expected that you will Continue to give the land Cases still pending every attention which the public interest may require."
I am Very Respectfully Your Obdt. Servant
(Signed) CHARLEs B. PENROSE Solicitor of the Treasury TO/ THOMAS DOUGLAS Esqr U. S. Attorney S*Augustine Florida CHARLES B. PENROSE TO WILLIAM P. DUVAL
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 13]</source>
<place-time>Officer of the Solicitor of the Treasury March 25* 1843</place-time>
SIR Soon after the receipt of your letter of the 12* December"
advising me of the progress made in bringing the Florida land claims to final adjudication, and their present Condition, I addressed the President of the United States, a Communication on the Subject of an application to Congress for further provision for Continuing the Office of Law Agent * and the payment of a proper Compensation to him and the District Attorney for attending to them. * These papers were returned to me by the President with a note * Stating that
“after perusing these papers, I come to the Conclusion that you had better Submit them to the proper Committee of Congress—And in the event of no action by Congress give express directions to the United States Attorney in Florida to attend to them—They are of great interest to the United States.” In pursuance of this direction a Communication was addressed to the Chairman of the Committee of Public lands, in the House of Representatives enclosing Copies of your report of the 12" of December and one from M Douglas of the

10" of Dec * in which I informed him that the “Value of the lands referred to in these Several Communications, and the great public interests involved, have induced me to transmit the accompanying papers, with the assent of the President, for the purpose of inviting the attention of the Committee on public lands to the questions Connected with them.”—
This Communication was taken up and examined by the Committee who reported a bill making the necessary appropriations, and unanimously, I am informed urged upon the House the importance & necessity of its passage *—And no doubt was entertained of its passage could it have been reached on the Calender—but that not being the case, it sleeps among the unfinished business of the Session.
Fearing this result, the precaution was taken some ten days before the adjournment, at the suggestion one of the Committee of the House to Call the attention of the Committee of the Senate also to the Subject—but for the Same Cause no action could in that body—
And now Congress having adjourned without making provision to pay Counsel to represent them what is to be done? The Continuance of your attention and Services in these Cases is deemed of very great importance to the interests of the United States yet there is no fund out of which the Department Can Compensate you. I have conferred fully and freely on the Subject with your Delegate in Congress, and the conclusion we arrived at was, that I should Communicate to you what had been done in the premises, and submit to you whether under the Circumstances you should not continue to give your Services to the Government in these Cases, relying on Congress at their next Session to make provision to pay you. I have no authority in the premises and can hold out no promise of Compensation—All that I can Say is that I deem your Services of great importance to the Government—And that I believe Congress will at the next Session provide a reasonable Compensation for those Services. In this opinion your Delegate as he will inform you Concurs—If in view of these Circumstances and upon this reliance for Compensation you can consistently with a proper regard for your private interests, Continue your attention to these Cases I shall be greatly gratified Please advise me of your determination in the matter at your earliest Conveniance.”
I am Very Respectfully Your Obdt. Servant
(Signed) CHA". B. PENROSE Sol" of the Treasury To/ W. P. DUVAL Esqr Florida

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, Ix]</source>
<place-time>March 25, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR, I have to inform you, that the amounts submitted in your late estimates, for your own salary, & for Clerks in your Office, as follows:
For the half year ending 30" June 1843.
For your own salary $1,000.
For Clerks in your Office 1,500 2,500
For the fiscal year ending 30" June 1844
For your own salary 2,000
For Clerks in your Office 3,000 5,000
Total $7,500
have been provided in the Appropriation Acts of 24" Dec. last & 3"
March inst.
In making your disbursements under the above appropriations, I have to request, that you will observe the most rigid economy and restrict the expenditures as much within your own estimates, as may be consistent with the public interest, in order that any part of the balance remaining, which may not be wanted, when the next estimates for new appropriations are submitted to Congress, may be either be carried forward for the Service of the ensuing fiscal year, or be turned over to the Surplus fund, whichever may be deemed most expedient at the time.
The general appropriation for surveying includes an amount available for the fiscal year commencing 1" July next, intended for the extension of the surveys in the “armed occupation district”
Florida, & it has already been recommended, in a communication from the Hon. D. Levy to this Office, to have surveyed all the lands included between the Indian river or sea cost, & the townships ordered to be surveyed last fall on the River St Johns;—no further action will be taken however, until the plats of at least a portion of the townships already under Contract for subdivision shall be returned to this Office.*
In the mean time I will thank you to use the most vigorous efforts to return as many of the plats of new surveys as possible by the 1"
of July next, in order that the lands not located therein by settlers, may then be advertised for sale. You will likewise please report to this Office as early as convenient after the receipt hereof, on the

progress made in the new Surveys, and the probable time by which, with the aid of the above ample appropriations for Clerks, you will be enabled to complete the examinations and make returns of the township plats."
I am very respy &c THO. H. BLAKE. Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE REGISTERS OF LAND OFFICES</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters Sent, PLC, Bk. 8]</source>
<place-time>Circular. GENERAL LAND OFFICE March 25" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>Register at S*Augustine, Newnansville, Tallahassee, Florida.
GENTLEMEN By the 6* Section of the Act of Congress, known as the Armed Occupation Act, approved the 4" August 1842, entitled An Act “To provide for the Armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida,” it is provided
“That not exceeding two hundred thousand Acres of land shall be taken for settlement under this Act.”
It therefore become necessary that precautionary measures should be taken to prevent Permits being issued for more then the quantity authorized to be taken by law.
To secure this object you are therefore hereby directed To report to each other and to this Office from time to time, and as often as you may deem necessary (at least once a month) the aggregate quantity of acres taken up at your respective Offices under the Act from the Commencement of Operations up to the dates of your reports When you find from the reports of each other that the whole quantity Authorized to be located is likely to be taken up, or has Actually been covered by Permits, your Operations must forthwith cease under the law.
I shall rely upon your vigilance and promptitude to prevent the possibility of Permits being issued for any excess whatever over the quantity of 200.000 Acres authorized to be located under the Aforesaid Act.”
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner

PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT BY RESIDENTS OF ST.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHNS COUNTY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: DS "I</source>
<place-time>[March, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>To His Excellency, John Tyler, President of the U States, The undersigned, residents of the County of St. Johns in the Territory of Florida, beg leave to represent to your Excellency, that the Surveyor General of this Territory has heretofore resided in Middle Florida; that this location was selected before the lands in Middle Florida were surveyed; that the unsurveyed lands are now mainly, if not wholly, in East Florida; that the numerous grants, made to the old Spanish inhabitants, lie here also; that many of them are within the district now being, or soon to be, surveyed;
that the public Archives, in which are deposited the original grants and plats of survey, are kept in St. Augustine, & that the United States surveys can not be properly made without frequent references to the Archives for these grants & plats; that the proprietors of these grants, though often of limited means, are subject to much inconvenience & useless expense, without being able to have their lands surveyed from the impracticability of seeing the Surveyor General or finding his deputies, while making the Surveys; that, in former surveys, many confirmed grants have been run out as public land, & other irregularities have arisen, which must occasion great inconvenience & injury to the poorer claimants, and result only in expensive, litigation. The undersigned believe the above evils & other inconveniences would be averted by the residence of the Surveyor General in St. Augustine, or some other part of East Florida, & that the interests of the United States would be promoted by preventing irregularities & setting the boundaries of these numerous private claims. They therefore beg leave most respectfully to suggest to your Excellency the propriety of establishing the office of the Surveyor General at St. Augustine, thereby advancing the interests of the United States no less than those of the citizens of East Florida, in which the unsurveyed lands lie.”
John G. Smith Geo. R. Fairbanks B. A. Putnam W. H. Simmons C. A M Mitchel W. M. Ives James Riz M E Levy John Beard Jr. David R. Dunham John M. Fontané Ora Howard

F L OR I. D. A
John Carreras J M Hanson Mathew Solana Roque Leonardy Philip Weedman Matthew Long Antonio Canobas J. Forman Wm G DaViS
John P. Zylstra Edw Ar. De Cottes John C. Huther B. Segui P. B. Dumas M. Sanches Jose Papy Manuel Crespo George Colee S H Beecroft Christian Boyé
Chas Schultze Elias Wallen Geo. Center C. Bravo Venancio Sanchez Michael DE. Medicis Frederick R. Going Domingo Cercopoly Henry Wharton Thomas Cosby John Ivers J. A. Brush Joshua Joyner A. H. Cole Jn” Drysdale J. C. Hemming Cha" Robion Joseph Vance G E Llambias Gasper N. Pappy S. F. Jones R. R. Reid Henry Thomas John Llambias Michael Usina Lorenzo Gracesque Felipe Gomos Rogue Lionardy Petroniles R. Lopez Gregorio Bravo B Leonardy Locario Pellicier Joseph Siddons John D. Usina J. B. Boyd Antonio Pons Pedro Benet Vicente Pacetty Jaime Hernandez Jose Pacetty Jose Andreu John Capo Pedro Usins Jose Mas Jorge Cla John Andreu Gabriel Capo 2"
Elias S Medicis Thos. T. Russell O. M. Dorman F. Y. Vail F. G. Washburn Abrah" Dupont G. Humphreys Jos: S. Sanchez F. L. Dancy F Bridier Charles Loring Cha” E. O'Sullivan Ja" Pellicier E. B. Usina Robt. Mickler James Knowles J: L. Smith Samuel Arey Walter Howe Peter Knowles Francis Dustan

Wm W. Allen Nathaniel Henry J. L. Palmer Tho° S BrOWn S Hill Williams W. F. Perpall John C. Cleland B. E. Caro & Co William A. Forward Geo Burt E B. Gould E. D. Medicis Ge" Paul Geiger Laurence Andreu Col J. F. Rogero A J Hedrick Raphael A Torres Felix Cercopoly Joseph A Strischka J. Cohn Geo. J. Zehnbaun Geo Bartlett Wm D FOntané
John R. Mitchel Francis Whitaker David Allen Lyman Southwick Pedro Manucy Agustin Lopez F's Gué
Thos Scott J Gué
Ira Madden Sam' A. Strong Tho" Morison John H. Gates Michael Neligan J. H. Brown William Morison Paul B. Canovas J C Ferrieres Edward Hood Joseph Manusey Matthew Long George Marshall Manuel X Solana M E Levy E. D. Fontane John Hannam Jose T. Andreu Andres pasety Antoine Baya Gabriel Maestre James Ramos Jose Benet Gabriel Capo Bartolome Pacetty Jose Hernandez Antonio Andreu 1°
Antonio Andreu 2°
</docbody>
<dochead>Diego Hernandez Fernando Falany THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, April 3" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. J. WORTH Comdg. 9" Dept. Pilatka, Flo.
SIR; Your letter of the 20" ultimo” reporting the arrangements made by you in execution of General Orders No. 21, has been submitted to the General-in-Chief and fully meet his approval.

In respect to the supplying of Key West, the General is of opinion that it is best for a time that the Steamer Cincinnati should be retained in the public service and the supplies for that Post be generally derived from Tampa Bay, with the exception of the article of flour, which the Commanding General thinks had better be supplied from the north.
I am futher directed by the General to say, that he relies greatly on your habits of economy, in public expenditures, to reduce the water craft in the service of the United States, connected with the
9* Department, to the lowest amount practicable, with reference to the good of the Service.”
I am Sir, &c, R. JONES, Adjt. General.
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets. :LS]</source>
<place-time>STAUGUSTINE E FApril 7th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I mentioned in my letter of the 7” the seizure of the Brig Nimrod and her cargo of Live oak—she was seized by my direction on the 3" of March and is now undergoing an investigation before the court of admiralty which was convened for that purpose on the 5"
inst—The defendants in the suit Messrs Palmer & Ferris on behalf the live oak and Capt Smith on the part of the vessel used their utmost efforts to have the case put off but failed in their undertaking.
The question having been decided this day that the trial must progress immediately—The oak on board is insured for 10.000$ which goes to show the value of the cargo—The Brig is valued at 4.000$
and in my opinion there is not the least doubt but that the Brig and cargo will be condemned, and I would suggest to You the propriety of the Department in appointing an agent to bid on behalf of the Government, for if she is put up at public auction to be sold for cash, the Brig and cargo would not bring two thousand dollars, -You will perceive in that event the Government could but be deprived of her just rights.—We on the behalf of Government would have been willing to bond the vessel and cargo for ten or eleven thousand dollars, but they being unable to give sufficient security, she will be compelled to remain here until the case is decided. It is proper for me to remark that this cargo consists of 5000 feet or upwards of the very choisest

description of Live oak, every stick being such as calculated for beams and kelson peices—
There is now about 6 or 7000 thousand feet of Live oak at New Smyrna which has been cut from the public lands and part of the same being hauled to the landing and the remainder still lays in the hammock—I shall make a seizure of it immediately, and if they will give bonds for the delivery of it to the Navy Yard for which it is intended, the proceeds to be retained in the hands of the Government, till all issues may be settled in a court of justice I shall permit them to do so, for it would be much more to the advantage of the Gov than it would to have it disposed of at public auction here.
As I am here to report facts, as near as they present themselves to me without predjudice, I will take this opportunity to state that all diligence and perseverance has been used by Mr Douglass on behalf of the Government from the term of the superior court commencing on the 13" of March last until the present day—and I hope that I shall not be under the necessity of stating to the Department again that I
think he is neglecting his duty.
As I perceive that You have reccommended to congress the necessity, of having crafts of some description in this vicinity for the protection of Live oak. I would suggest to You the advantages it would be to the General government to have the Schooner “Walter M”
transferred to the navy Department for that purpose,—I understand that the Qr Master has no further occasion for her and that she will be laid up or sold in a few weeks. She is a good Sea vessel.
of light draught of water, not over 4 feet and well calculated for the purpose—all repairs that she could require would not cost over 250$
I will here give You the present expense of sailing her—there being seven men including the captain and Mate it amounts to 235 dollars—By shipping a regular crew the expense could be reduced 25
dollars leaving a nett expense of 210$ prmonth or 25208 per annum-
I will slightly set forth the difference in expense between running a Steam Boat and a Schooner—by furnishing You with a description of some part of the coast on the Atlantic side and the price of Steam boat fuel—At St Augustine the price of wood is 4$ per cord.—at Mosquito it would be difficult to obtain any, unless there should be some one there for the express purpose of procuring it, and it would have to be hauled and flatted a long distance. The water on the Mosquito Bar at the average tide is about eleven feet six inches.-
If there was a canal cut through at the haulover to Indian river about

the cost of making said canal 30 feet wide and six feet deep, which would not exceed 10.000$—The waters in Indian river are about two feet higher than that on the Mosquito Lagoon—that would give a fine navigation to a rich tract of country and facilitate the Government in procuring a large quantity of Live oak and red cedar timber whenever they should require it—The Bar at Indian river at present is very indifferent there not being over 4 feet at average tides.
The same difficulty presents itself there in respect to Steamboat wood as it does at Mosquito, and You will perceive that the same difficulties are to be met with at all the Bars between that and the cape, and there will be undoubtedly a large trade carried on in Live oak timber in that Section of the Country the ensuing winter—as some of those Bars at the different rivers and inlets average from 7 to 9
feet of water, and a Steam boat could not possibly cruise from one place to another at some seasons of the Year more than once in 3
or 4 months unless she was calculated expressly for a Sea boat, and then her draught of water would be too great to enter any of those Southern inlets and rivers whereas a schooner could seldom be delayed, and could run in under ballast wherever there was 4 feet of Water.—
The expense of victualling and manning a Steam Boat it would be entirely unnecessary for me to set forth as You are perfectly conversant with that subject.”
I beg that You may reply as soon as practicable to such portions of this letter as You may deem requisite I remain With respect Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE
Agent for the preservation of Timber &" in East Florida TO A PUPSHER Sec of the U S N
April 10" 1843
P.S. Sir—I omitted to state that Capt Hitchcock of the Schooner
“Walter M” has been long in the Quarter Masters employ and stands highly esteemed by the officers as a gentleman and a navigator.
I received information this day from Jacksonville that the Bill of Lading of a shipment in part of Boushells Live oak, cut from the land occupied by the settlers at Lake Muroe under the “armed and

occupation bill” has been forwarded to You by Mr Bryant as I
directed him to do during my absence—The Settlers it appears place great dependence in the decision of this question, as to their right to cut and sell Live oak, before they have complied with the act of congress made and provided for the armed occupation and settlement of Florida. I will here state that if they should have that right, there will be four or five hundred engaged the ensuing winter in cutting and selling Live oak in all directions as that appears to be the principal object of a great portion of those settlers. The trial above mentioned is progressing rapidly and there is nothing in my opinion can save the Brig and cargo from being condemned.
I will ask You to inform me if I can create any more expenses, if not, I shall most probably lose very important suits against Palmer
& Ferris and others, which have been instituted on behalf the United States. Those suits amount to 150 or 200.000 dollars—The nature of them is for cutting Live and destroying red cedar timber.—I once more remark that we cannot sustain a suit without positive proof that the land which we alledge to be public is so, and that we have to test with chain and compass.
I would respectfully refer You Boushells bond for the delivery of the above named Timber at the Norfolk Navy Yard and which I forwarded to You about two month and a half since."—
I remain Respectfully Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE
Agent for the preservation &c in East Florida TO AP UPSHER Sec Of the U. S. N.
[Endorsed] April 7.—1843 file T. 187 April 22 Call 
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ROBERT MYERS AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (APALACHICOLA DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals Temp. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[April 8, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of ROBERT MYERS, I do appoint him Marshal of the United States for the Apalachicola District in Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; and to have and to hold the said Office, * See post, p. 645.

with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto him, the said ROBERT MYERS during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the United States, and no longer.”
In Testimony whereof, I have caused these Letters to be
[L.S.] made patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the eighth day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty three and of the Independence of the United States of America, the Sixty seventh”
JOHN TYLER.
By the President:
FLETCHER WEBSTER, Acting Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U. S. Attys., Clks., and Marshals (Fla.):ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office ST AUGUSTINE April 13* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Your letter of the 25" Ultimo " in reply to mine of the 10th of December last," advising you of the situation of the various suits still pending involving the title to land claims under the Florida Treaty;” was duly received; and I have the honor to say in reply, that anticipating the result you mention of the effort to procure “a proper provision for the payment of counsel to attend to them on behalf of the United States” I had already determined as a matter of duty arising under the law referring these claims to our court for adjudication; to attend strictly to the defense of those cases, and rely upon the justice of the Government for compensation therefore: deeming them (as it seems the President does also, and very properly) “of

great interest to the United States;” and not doubting that proper provision will eventually be made (if none already exist) for such compensation: you Sir may assure him therefore, that his express directions communicated through you to me in relation thereto, shall be fully complied with.
I am Sir with great respect Your Obt Servt THO DOUGLAS
C. B. PENROSE Esquire Solr. U States Treasury City of Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Tho Douglas. U. S. Atty april 13* 1843 Reply to letter of the Solr of the Treasury of the 25" of March 1843 respecting suits pending involving title to Land Claims under the Florida Treaty No answer THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>Gen Land Office April 14, 1843.</place-time>
V. Y. CONWAY Esg Sur. Geni Tallahassee Florida SIR. I have to invite your attention to the fact that there is in the Office of the Late Receiver of public moneys at Tallahassee an iron safe of unusually large capacity, too large for the purposes of the late Receiver, who, obtained authority from the Secretary of the Treasury to procure one of smaller dimensions, in view of a suggestion made by this Office that the large safe might be made to answer the more useful purpose of protecting from the casualty of fire the important field notes & other Archives of your office.”
I will thank you to examine the safe alluded to and report to me your opinion of its usefulness to your Office, and estimate the cost of its transportation to S*Augustine in the event of the removal of your Office to that City.
On the 12" inst there was referred to this office a petition signed by upwards of one hundred and fifty Citizens of the County of S'
Johns in Florida, requesting the President to remove the Surveyor Generals Office to S*Augustine"—

A memorial, bearing nearly fifty signatures, to the same purport had previously been presented by M. Levy, the delegate from the Territory"—
Your letter of 27* February" expresses the desire that the movement, if made, should not be ordered until next fall.
The matter thus stands at present, ready to be called up for the Consideration of the Executive at any moment that may be desired—
I will be happy to receive any further suggestions from you on the subject."
Very respy Your Ob*S*
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>AUGUSTUS W. WALKER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA: ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Collector's office ST: AUGUSTINE E. F. April 20*1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: On the 7" ultimo.” I had the honor of informing you that I had caused the Brig “Nimrod” of Hollowell, Maine, burthen 19740/
95 tons, Thomas Smith, master to be seized, said Brig being loaded almost entirely, if not altogether with live oak cut from the Public lands, and that I had also directed the proper legal proceedings to be instituted against said vessel and cargo. It now becomes my duty to add that after a protracted session, this case was decided in the Superior Court for the District of East Florida, sitting at St: Augustine, and a decree rendered on the 18" instant declaring the vessel, together with her tackle, apparel and furniture to be forfeited, and directing the same to be sold on the 28* instant, ordering further that out of the Seventy six sticks composing her cargo, sixty six proved to have have been cut on lands belonging to the United States, be delivered to the Government agent charged with the preservation of live oak; the value of these sixty six sticks is, I am informed from eight to nine thousand dollars.
Doubtless every effort will be made by the parties interested, Mess" Palmer & Ferris and the owners of the Brig, to have the whole or part of the above penalties remitted, the first who have become enriched by preying, until now unchecked, on the live oak timber belonging to the Government, the last for a long time past associated in carrying the live oak thus obtained; but I can not beleive, permit

me to say, that their application can meet with success, overlooking the facts as they relate to myself, the heavy responsability, responsability indeed which until this instance every officer of the Government has feared to incur, and which I have taken upon myself in effecting the seizure of this Brig and cargo, laying myself open if unsuccessful to a personal suit in damages for the whole amount, the personal danger from the little respect paid to the laws securing the lives of persons in this portion of country, the anxiety, labor, and expense caused me by these proceedings, for the whole of this strictly speaking it was perhaps my duty to do; I would be allowed to show the ill effects which are likely to result from an act of mercy, may I
say so undeserved, as the remitting of any part of the penalties incurred, and particularly the forfeiture of the Brig. Since the decree all persons engaged in the illegal cutting of live oak have been struck with fear, and I venture to say that if it, the decree is allowed to take its course, no master of vessel will be found hardy enough to load with live oak, in this collection district at least, until well satisfied of its having been cut on private land but should the penalties which have been imposed or any part of them be remitted, the hope of a like impunity will cause others I fear, to follow the same course, reckless of the law, and probably many will escape, and the United States continue to be defrauded. Again if the decree be allowed to take its course, it will induce persons residing in the thinly populated districts where live oak is mostly found, and who from want of proper information are now rather favorable to the depredators, to take a different view of the subject, from that which they entertained when live oak was cut with impunity, and lead them from the hope of gain, if from no worthier motive, to inform the Government of such depredations as may come within their knowledge.
I would also remark that in this case not only the timber on board the Brig has been saved to the United States, but a much larger quantity which had been cut and partly hauled by the same persons, Palmer & Ferris, and which has now been taken possession of by the live oak agent.
May I in addition ask to be favored with such directions to the Court here, as may be necessary to obtain that portion of my share of the seizure which shall arise from the neat proceeds of the sale of the Brig?—
I trust, Sir, you will excuse this lengthened statement in favor of my wish to put you in possession of the whole of the facts in relation to this matter.”

I have the honor to be, Sir, With great respect Your obedient Servant A. W. WALKER Collector To THE HONORABLE ABLE P. UPSHUR Secretary of the Navy Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Walker April 20/43 A. W. Walker Collector St Augustine April 20* 1843. In relation to the seizure of the Brig Nimrod Inform him that no contractor has a right to cut from the public land. Inform Capt Tho Smith of the decision of the court & the shipment of the timber W 301 May 1 Call WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES B. PENROSE
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands: LS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE April. 20" 1843</place-time>
SIR, Your letter of the 25" Ult:" and a copy of your Report to the President, dated 14" January 1843," owing to the long delay of the Mails by high waters, did not arrive here until the last Mail—
I have determined to proceed as the Agent of the United States in defending their interest against the claims for land in the cases now pending in the Courts of Florida—or which may arise; and wait the further action of Congress as to my Compensation—
I am well aware that you have no authority in the premises, but as my services are deemed important, I will take the risk of depending on the future action of Congress, who no doubt will do whatever is right and just for the interest of the United States.
Should Congress think proper to appropriate any thing for my services, they will no doubt take into consideration the delay, and expense I must incur previous to their action—I think it but right to remark that the claimants having heard that my employment in behalf of the U. States had terminated, made to me liberal offers to engage in the prosecution of their land claims—This I have declined doing. for several reasons, but principally on account of my having acted for the United States heretofore, and in their service obtained a knowledge of the claims, which might be used to their injury—
Obtaining all the information on one side as their Agent, I would prefer to continue in their Service—I cannot view it as compatible with the honor and dignity of my profession voluntarily to change sided in cases I have once managed, however liberal may be the offers to do so—I shall proceed therefore without delay to S' Augustine, "Ante, p. 632.

as the land cases will be argued in June next, and to that place you can, when necessary direct your Communications Respectfully Your Obt Svt Wm P. DUVAL
I would suggest that if any action should take place under the grant to the Duke of Allegon. the vollums of state papers comprising the correspondence of Mr Adams & the American & Spanish ministers, would be important The action of the cortes on these grants—will be seen by refferince to the proceedings on the final ratification of the Florida treaty, I am inclined to think a copy of the state papers can not be had at St Augustine should you think them necessary they may be sent to the District Attorney their—
Wm P. DUVAL
CHARLEs B. PENROSE Esq." Solicitor of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Tallahassee April 20, 1843. W." P. Duvall Esq."
Advises that he will defend the interests of the U. States in the undecided Florida land claims, & depend upon the future action of Congress for Compensation & Pleasants” Ack" May 2" 1843—”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE May 1* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>W. H. SIMMONS Esq Register S*Augustine Florida.
SIR: I am in receipt of your letter of the 15" Ult” in which you state that “many Applications having been made to” your “Office by Females, for Permits to take up land under the occupation Act, -
and the phraseology of the law being somewhat obscure, so as to leave it doubtful whether its privileges were designed to be extended to this class of emigrants,” you request directions on the subject.
You state further that “the District Attorney, M' Douglas, to whom” you “referred in the first instance, inclines to the Opinion that the expressions ‘any Person, being the head of a family” were
“intended to include this class of Applicants, -who in all instances, have either sons or slaves, Capable of labor, and therefore of bearing Arms; but does not feel altogether satisified of the correctness of this interpretation,” and at his recommendation you “apply to the Department for its decision and directions on this subject.”
That 1" Stipulation in the Act is “That Said Settler shall obtain from the Register of the Land Office, in the District in which he
71* Benjamin F. Pleasants, clerk in office of Solicitor of the Treasury.

proposes to settle, a permit describing, as particularly as may be practicable, the place where his or her settlement is intended to be made;” &c. Again—In the 2"Section of the Said Act, after referring to cases of Settlement of the same quarter Section by two or more settlers, and providing that the right to location shall be determined by priority of Settlement, the following language is employed; “and the subsequent Settler or settlers shall be permitted to locate the quantity, he—she—or they may be entitled to elsewhere within the same township upon vacant public lands.”
The words underscored in red ink in the foregoing, (not italicized however in the Act) go to Sustain the Correctness of the inclination of the District Attorney's Opinion as quoted by you, Viz.—that “the expressions ‘any Person being the head of a family’” were “intended to include this class of Applicants” [Females]” “Who, in all instances, have either Sons or Slaves, Capable of labor, and therefore of bearing Arms.”—Indeed the underscored words place the matter, in my Opinion, beyond doubt, and you will therefore govern yourself Accordingly, taking care that the testimony is Satisfactory in every Application, to bring the case fully up to the requirements of this interpretation.”
Very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS AND GEORGE W. COLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>May 2, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>R & R S*Augustine Florida.
GENTLEMEN, I have to request that you furnish this office at the earliest practicable period with a full report of the result of your investigation in the case of John C. Cleland late Receiver as directed in the letter addressed to you by the Commissioner under date of the
8* August 1840.” It is my wish that the report embrace all the cases of receipts or other evidences of the payments for public lands issued by the late Receiver & which were not reported by him to this Office as far as have been ascertained by you from the commencement of the investigation to the present period.
Very respy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL  AND JOHN PARSONS78</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE May 8" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER AND RECEIVER Newnansville Florida.
GENTLEMEN In reference to the subject of the Register's letter to me of the 3 Ult°.” I addressed a communication of the 2" Ins'
to the Secretary of the Treasury,” recommending certain rules for the approval of the President in order that priority of Settlement may be ascertained in cases contemplated by the 2" Sec" of the Florida Armed occupation Act of 4* Aug. 1842, which recommendation has been duly approved by the President.
For your information and government, I herewith enclose a Copy of Said Communication and of the Approval—
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE May 15" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HONB1° JOHN C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury.
SIR: Under the Act of Congress of the 4" August 1842, entitled An Act to “provide for the Armed Occupation and Settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida,” * cases of the following description have been Submitted to this Office—
1." The Case of W. Clark stated in his letter herewith (A), dated the 18" Ult.* at Newnansville E. Florida, from which it appears that he had obtained a permit to settle a tract he had selected “in the
‘Oclawaha Swamp”—that at the time he selected it, “the Land was dry, (altho Low”) that “since the winter & Spring however considerable rain has fallen and” he has “found it impossible to settle the tract with anything like a certainty of health or making Crops should” he

“cultivate—the River or Creek over flowing a large portion of the Swamp bordering on that river” &c.
Mr Clark now applies for a Change of Permit.
2" The next case is that of Walter D. Eretson, presented in his letter herewith (B) dated the 31" Ult” * at St Augustine Florida, stating that the land which he had “taken up was on a Private Grant,”
and asking that power be given to the Register to change his permit.
In regard to erroneous entries, or illegal Sales of lands Congress has expressly delegated Authority to the Executive to afford relief in Specified and enumerated classes of Cases—See Act of 3" March
1819.”—Clarks Comp: Land laws Page 757,—Act of 24" May 1824*
Page 863, Act of 12" Jan 1825* Page 890—Act of 24th May 1828"
Acts 1* Sess 20" Cong: Page 108,-And in case of “erroneous locations of the Warrants of the Canadian refugees,”—Act of 34
March 1831* Acts 2" Sess 21" Congress Page 108.
In the Armed Occupation Act however no power, in express terms, has been conferred on the Department to Authorize change of location.—
The principle cannot for a moment be recognized or admitted which would allow a location to be changed either from Caprice or desire to get a better tract—but where it should appear by competent, and satisfactory testimony to the Register that the land first selected was of such a character, either by reason of its total inadaptation to the purposes of human support, and of the impracticability of a compliance with the conditions of the Act as to the erection of a house—continuous residence, and cultivation, or where the land selected is on a “private grant” and the permit absolutely invalid on the account, I incline to the Opinion that it would be no stretch of Authority but on the contrary the Spirit and intent of the Armed Occupation Act (which expires 4 Aug.
next) would be subserved by allowing a new location.
Entertaining however some doubt on the subject, the matter is submitted for your advice and directions in the premises.
With great respect Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner

</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 236: LS]</source>
<place-time>N° 51 Head Qrs: 9" Department ST. AUGUSTINE May 22, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. On recommendation of the local commander at Fort Brooke, approved and advised by the General in Chief, the President of the United States on the 30" Dec'r 1830 caused a reservation of public lands to be made and announced, thro’ the proper officers, including
“sixteen miles square” of which Fort Brooke Tampa Bay was the center—By the subsequent instructions of the President, the U.S.
Marshal was directed, on requisition of the commander at Fort Brooke, to remove all intruders and other persons obnoxious to the good order and discipline of the troops. The law approved
4" August 1842, usually called the armed occupation bill, makes donations of land &c and by its phraseology allows of settlement beyond the distance of two miles from a military post but is silent in regard to any previous reservation for military or other public purposes.—The intentions of the Government would seem to be fully manifested by its instructions to the Marshal of June 13"
1839,” reiterated on the 224 Septr 1842" near two months after the approval of the act before referred to (under which right is asserted to settle up to the distance of two miles) directing the removal of all intruders on requisition as before mentioned—As the right to occupy public lands on this reservation at any point distant two miles is now asserted and favored by the language of the permits given by the register of the land office, it becomes necessary in order to forewarn those who may ignorantly or perversely subject themselves to removal and consequent loss & inconvenience, and to forearm the military officer in the performance of his duty, to ask precise orders as to the construction to be given to the act of 4"
Aug 1842 in the foregoing respect; and also that the land officers may be instructed in conformity therewith " —the opinion of Mr.
Attorney General Berrien in an analagous case maintaining the government in reserved lands will be found in a volume entitled
“General public acts of Congress respecting sale and disposition of public lands—official opinions &c” part 2"—page 174.”
An early reply is respectfully requested.”
Very Respectfully Your ob’t Serv't W. J WORTH Brig Gen' Comg

THE ADJ* GENERAL OF THE ARMY
[Endorsed] T H. Blake Esq Comm. G. Land Office Head Qrs.
My Dept N° 9. St Augustine May 22° 1843 W. J. Worth B. G. Coms On the subject of reserved lands at or near F" Brooke Tampa Bay.
F* & asking instructions on the subject thereto–See, the instructions of the Sec. of War, of Septr.: 22° 1843," thro' this office, to the commanding officer in Fla.—The act of August 4, '42—cannot, it is thought, invalidate the previous, Special legislation, respecting the reservations of land, for public uses, in Florida—. Such an interpretation of the new law” for the benefit of Setlers—would not be congenial to the spirit, or object of the law, but would be very prejudicial to the service—& Respectfully submitted—R. Jones.
May 30. Returned—June 3**—See the answer copy of the Commissioners letter, (May 31–) sent"—R. Jones ansd. Respy ref"
to the Com of the General Land Office JMP May 30, 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surv" General TALLAHASSEE 25" May 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to inform you that I have just returned from an excursion, during which I have twice visited S*Augustine—
Tampa-Jacksonville, and almost every portion of the Peninsula—
My Object has been to reconnoitre the whole country, communicate with my Deputies, mark the progress of the Surveys and of the settlements—note the character of the Lands—and above all weigh deliberately the advantages of a change of location of the Office of Surveyor General which forms the subject of your two communications of 16th Jany" & 14th April.” After maturely considering the whole ground, my convictions are strengthened rather than diminished in regard to the propriety of a removal to some point in East Florida & is only divided between Palatka—beautifully situated on the S" Johns about 15 miles from Augustine, when the National road now being Surveyed shall be compleated,—and the city of S* Augustine formerly recommended by me.—as between the two, the Government or the people of East Florida could have

but little choice—a removal to either would be hailed by the old and the new population, which is fast flowing in, as a great blessing.
As you have consented to defer the final decision of this matter to the ensuing fall, I will postpone for the present any enlargement of my views. Would it not be well in the mean time to address a note to his Excellency, the President, and ascertain whether if convinced that the interests of the Government and the people would be promoted thereby, he would undertake to remove the Office to E.F? I have no doubt that he will cheerfully take the responsibility.—
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Sert.
V. Y. CONWAY Sr. Gen!
THO" H BLAKE Esq.r Comm Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 25 May 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G.
Relative to removal of office of Surv' Gen" from Tallahassee. Says that it would be grateful to the whole population to have it removed either to Pilatka or St Augustine. Ackg" June 17 1843*—June 5/43
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surv' General TALLAHASSEE May 25" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, During my peregrinations in East Florida, I visited and inspected the lines of some of my Deputies in the Field—and communicated with all. I beg leave to suggest the following report of the progress & probable consummation of the Work for the present SeaSOIn M Thomas has finished his operations in the field. He is here, preparing for a full report which may be daily expected. M' Prevost will probably return in two weeks, M Weightman about the same time (both contracts complete)
Colo Washington having run the meridian & parallels is now engaged upon his district.
Colo Reid is prosecuting his work but will probably be detained some time owing to incessant rains & high waters—his district being rather low.
I enclose herewith a copy of a letter from M* A.M. Randolph requesting a suspension of his contract—Of the truth of his statement I am satisfied; & respectfully request your concurrence therein.
Mr Whitner states that he will require a suspension of his contract for much the same reasons as those expressed in M* Randolph's Communication

I have to assure you that so soon as the work comes in every effort shall be used speedily to prepare the plats &" and forward them to your Department I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt W. Y. CONWAY Sr Gen!
THOMAS H BLAKE Esqr. Comm General Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 25 May 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G.
Reports the condition & state of progress of the surveys under the late contracts. Encloses copy of letter from A.M. Randolph, Depy Sur asking suspension of his contract, thinks it should be granted him, M Whitner will also require a suspension. Ackg" June 17 1843 *
W.T.S. certified copy sent to Col. H. Washington Oct. 31, 1846.
June 5/43
[Enclosure]
Arthur M. Randolph to Valentine Y. Conway
(Copy) TALLAHASSEE May 8" 1843.
SIR, I have the honor to inform you that being unable to complete my contract within the given time and being fully convinced of the imposibility of carrying on feild operations at this season in a proper manner and without great sacrafice of health if not of life itself, I concluded it best to come home, ask permission to make returns of the surveys I have made, and beg that the completion of the work may be postponed until the fall or winter—I will state my reasons for this course and have no doubt of their being satisfactory to yourself as well as the department at Washington—Before doing so however let me call your attention to the fact that altho' my contract was signed on the 12" of Nov. & I was on the ground a few days after, a starting point was not furnished me until the 21st of Jany consequently two of the most valuable months in the year were passed inactively by me altho' at a heavy expense all the while–My first efforts were to establish the boundaries of the military reserve of sixteen miles square around F* Brooke; After doing this I began on the meridian run by Colo Washington, and run out the exterior Township lines from 27 to 32 inclusive and from the Meridian to the reserve and Tampa Bay on the west, with the exception of a line in the S.W. Corner rendered impracticable by a heavy & miry Cypress Swamp; I then sectioned three Townships which as far as I am able to judge contain at least as much good land as the others all together
& certainly a greater number of settlers—The other Townships which

I had selected as most proper for sectioning, are not at this time absolutely impracticable, but are literally covered by Muddy ponds &
savannas which exposed to the sun of this low latitude emit such noxious effluvia as to jeopardize in no slight degree the health of the Surveyor and his assistants, who are obliged in the course of their duty to spend (I may safely aver) one third of their time in them; to you sir, as a medical man the dangers of such exposure must be apparent. The big & little Hillsboro’ the big & little alifia,” the little Manatee & Bullfrog rivers have for the most part their rise in, and run their entire length through my district, and altho' insignificant streams in the dry season of winter, become terrific torrents when swelled by the heavy rains of spring and summer, overflowing their banks in every direction, and not only causing great delay to the Surveyor but presenting an insuperable obstacle to the attainment of that accuracy so necessary to his reputation and to the public interest—A reference to my notes will shew that I have carried lines for several miles in water from two to four feet deep, and have only left them when the water was over the “Jacob Staff” and it became impossible to set the compass, this coupled with the fact that I have counted as impracticable only two places in the whole of this miserable country will suffice to disprove any suspicion of a wish on my part to recind my contract, because it has unfortunately proved a bad one—so far from this being the case, all I now ask, is pay for what I have done & permission to defer the completion of the work until it can be done in greater security and a better manner than at present—Being however fully aware of the obligations I have taken, should you deem an immediate prosecution of the Survey essential to the public interest, I stand prepared to resume it Sir, let the difficulties & dangers be what they may, provided however I
receive compensation for my past labours; this is absolutely indispensable, as the means which I calculated on bearing me through my contract are already expended. Had my work been ready for me, when I first reached the ground it is more than probable I might have completed my Survey before the rains set in, which so much increased the difficulties & retarded my progress—hoping you will take my Case into favorable consideration I Remain Sir Yr most Obdt Servit A.M. RANDOLPH Depy. Surveyor.
V. Y. CONWAY Esq Sur. General
[Endorsed] Copy of letter from A.M. Randolph Dep’ Surveyor.
certified copy sent to Col. H. Washington Oct. 31. 1846.—

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA;WD, AGO Lets. Recd. W 236: LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE May 31* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I had the honor to receive from you the papers herewith returned, being a communication of the 22" inst, to the Adjutant General, U.S. Army, from Gen' Worth,”—with remarks endorsed thereon under date the 30" inst by the Adjutant General, and a copy of a letter of the 22" Sept. last" from the latter officer to Col.
Vose, relative to the reservation of public lands “including sixteen miles square of which Fort Brooke Tampa Bay was the centre.”
In Gen' Worth's letter I find the following: “As the right to occupy public lands on this reservation at any point distant two miles is now asserted and favored by the language of the permits given by the register of the land office, it becomes necessary in order to forewarn those who may ignorantly or perversely subject themselves to removal and consequent loss & inconvenience, and to forearm the military officer in the performance of his duty, to ask precise orders as to the construction to be given to the Act of 4"
Aug 1842 in the foregoing respect; and also that the land officers may be instructed in conformity therewith.”
Herewith I enclose a printed copy of the instructions dated 25"
August 1842* from this office to the Registers in regard to operations under the armed occupation act, accompanied by a printed map, on which the Military Reserve at Fort Brooke is distinctly laid down.
From this document it will be seen that the location under permits of any such reserve as the one in question is interdicted. The 3”
Section of the Armed Occupation Act declares “that no right or donation shall be acquired under this act, within two miles of any permanent military post of the United States, established and garrisoned at the time such settlement and residence was commenced.”
By the term “military post”, is of course understood the Fort and also the lands appurtenant thereto, which have been distinctly reserved, and set apart for military purposes.
No location under the armed occupation act can therefore in my opinion be legally made within two miles of the exterior limits of this reservation, and to this effect the Register of the Land Office

at Newnansville will be advised by the transmission to him, for the information of those concerned, of a copy of this communication.
With great respect Your obtd servt THO H BLAKE Commissioner HON. J. M. PORTER Secretary of War
[Endorsed] Gl Worths General Land Office May 31, 1843.—T. H.
Blake Esq Returns papers relative to the Military reservation at Tampa Bay, with action upon it. L 72. Rec June 2/43 Adjt. Genl.
A copy for Genl. Worth (Sent) June 3–1843
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, June 3" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>TO BRIGR. GEN. W. J. WORTH Comdg. 9" Dept. St. Augustine Florida.
SIR; In answer to your letter of the 22" of May relative to the reservation of public lands in Florida, for military purposes, measures have been taken to protect the same, as you may see by the letter of the Commissioner of the Land Office of May 31" to the Secretary of War, of which a copy is herewith enclosed.
With regard to the 3" Section of the Act of August 4” 1842, usually called the armed occupation act, the Commissioner distinctly statesthat in his opinion—“no location under the act can be legally made within two miles of the exterior limits of this reservation, and to this effect the Register of the Land Office at Newnansville will be advised by the transmission to him, for the information of those concerned, of a copy of this [the Commissioners]' communication.”"
I am Sir, &c, R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>PROCLAMATION OF PUBLIC LAND SALE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Rec. of Procls., Vol. 2]</source>
<place-time>NO. 367. [June 8, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>By the President of the United States.
Whereas by the Act of Congress approved on the 30" day of June
1834, entitled “An Act to authorize the sale of lots in the town of St Marks, Florida” * the President is authorized to direct the Register

and Receiver of the Tallahassee land District to make sale at public Auction of one fourth of the lots in the town of S*Marks, in the Territory of Florida, according to the plan of the Surveyor General of Said Territory: Now Know Ye, that I, JOHN TYLER, President of the United States do hereby declare and make known, that a public sale will be held at the Land Office at Tallahassee in the Territory of Florida, for the disposal of the undermentioned lots in the town of S"
Marks, Florida, on Monday the twenty third day of October next viz:
Lots numbered One, five, Nine, thirteen, seventeen, twenty one, twenty five, twenty nine, thirty three, thirty seven, forty one, forty five, forty nine, fifty three, fifty seven, sixty one, sixty five, sixty nine, seventy, seventy seven, eighty one, ninety five, eighty nine, ninety three, ninety seven, One hundred and One, one hundred and five, One hundred and nine, One hundred and thirteen One hundred and seventeen, One hundred and twenty one, and One hundred and twenty five, as represented upon the plan of the said Town, prepared by the Surveyor General of the Territory of Florida."
The sale will be kept open for two weeks, (unless the lots are sooner disposed of) and no longer, and no private entry of any lot so offered, will be admitted until after the expiration of the two weeks Given under my hand at the City of Washington, this eighth day of June, Anno Domini 1843 *
JOHN TYLER
By the President, THO H BLAKE Commissioner of the General Land Office Notice.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act of Congress, approved
2nd March 1833, entitled “An Act to establish a town at S* Marks, Florida” ” the Register and Receiver of the Land Office at Tallahassee, will be required prior to the day of sale to ascertain “the value of any improvements which may have been made,” on the lots designated in this Proclamation respectively “and the purchaser at public sale of any lot upon which there are such improvements, other than the owner thereof, shall, in addition to the sum to be paid to the United States be and hereby is required to pay to the owner of the improvements the value of them as thus ascertained; and if payment therefor shall not be made upon the day on which the same was purchased, the lot shall be again offered at public sale on the next day of sale, and such

person shall not be capable of becoming the purchaser of that or of any other lot offered at that public sale, provided, that, if any lot so offered and bid off on the last day of the public sale “shall not be thus paid for, the same may be entered at private sale upon paying to the United States the sum at which it was bid off, and to the owner of the improvements, the previously ascertained value thereof”
</docbody>
<dochead>By the Act of Congress aforesaid the minimum price of each lot is fixed at twenty five dollars THO H BLAKE Commissioner of the General Land Office VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE June 12*1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Herewith accompanying, is a transcript of a letter from an individual located in the vicinity of that part of the Territory surveyed before the commencement of the Indian War by B & J B.
Clements Deputy Surveyors. As is therein stated, the lines are all or nearly all obliterated; and my Deputy M" Weightman (whose contract joins up on this Survey) states that after the most minute search, he has been unable to find any of these lines—This was anticipated by your department, as will appear from the following which is quoted from a letter of the Commissioner of the 6" June 1837.”
“In connection with this subject you will also state such facts as may have come to your knowledge concerning the Marks upon the field of late the seat of the Indian War, and which may require the action of this office, or of Congress at its ensuing session, to replace such of them as may have been wantonly obliterated by the Savages.”
I will be obliged to you for your views as to the proper course to be pursued in reference to this subject, as the interest of the Government must suffer under existing circumstances I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt.
V. Y. CONWAY Sr Gen.'
THOMAS H BLAKE Esq Comm Gen Land Office.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 12 June 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G.
Encloses copy of a letter to him from W.M. Cooley, relative to the obliteration of the marks of old survey, in the late seat of the Indian War. States that his deputy, M Weightman also states that said marks cannot be found. Asks instructions on the subject. Answered

July 7 1843." W. T. S." Wilson "June 21. 1843 Refd. to Mr Steiger June 21 1843
[Enclosure]
W. M. Cooley to Valentine Y. Conway HOMOSSASSA E. F* Ap' 1843
SIR I have taken the liberty of addressing you in order to obtain some information relative to the survey of this part of the country.
There are a number of settlers here, and an addition of thirty to that number is daily expected, who wish to run their land by the surveyors lines, and I am unable, when in my official capacity, I
am called upon, to fill up their applications for permits, to give them the necessary information relative to the situation of their lands.
I have made unavoidable efforts to find the lines said to have been run at some former period, and the surveyors, now employed in this vicinity have made the same endeavours without success—It is my impression that as yet no accurate survey has been made of this portion of the peninsular, if such survey has been made will you have the goodness to furnish me with some information so as to find where the lines are run & you will greatly oblige YOur Obt Serv't
(signed) W. M. COOLEY Justice of the peace W. Y. CONWAY Esq Surveyor General Tallahassee E. Fl"
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd.:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E F June 16** 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. As I have nothing from my letter of the 4” of May " and take for granted the cause to be your absence, I would respectfully request that you would cause my fourth quarters salary to be forwarded to me, which was due on the 9" of May, to enable me to defray my expenses to washington, and consider this a receipt in full for the same—for it appears to be impossible to borrow a dollar in this place—
Since my last, Palmer & Ferris have carried their threats into execution as far as that of beating me—but did not succeed in taking my life, which without doubt was their intention—

on the 15" Ferris, unawares made a violent attack upon me and bruised me severely, by having Mr Fernandez of this place, and some others to back him up—but this is no more than they have threatened to do, the first time I could be taken by surprise or caught unarmed—and unfortunately on this occasion I was unarmed—He had become more enraged by the publication of the Judges opinion in the case of the Nimrod &c which laid open to the community the unfairness of their proceeding, and likewise as near as I can ascertain, they are about taking another cargo of Live Oak from Mosquito, and no doubt wished to injure me so that I could not look after it—
I have written to the commander of the revenue Cutter at Savannah to watch that Bar—He is now on a cruise South to New River and for fear they may get a load, and escape his vigilance, I shall take a cruise there on monday, or horseback unless my phisician thinks it would be too hazardous on account of the wounds I have received—
I shall not quit my duty or perservence on account of attacks made by these desperadoes—It is not likely that I shall be able to start for the north for two or three weeks on account of the injuries I have received from Ferris—It is proper for me to remark that they have men watching and waylaying me on every occasion I will here take the liberty to suggest to the department if they should succeed in getting a cargo from Mosquito to Norfolk to have a seizure made there of the vessel and cargo, for they cannot take a load from that place, without having one half of it government timber to a certainty—They may ship it to New York for they anticipate, if they have not already made their arrangements to furnish the English and French Navy with Live oak timber One of the agents of the latter was up the river St Johns about four or five weeks ago—I did not see him myself, but understood from those who did see him, that he was looking for spars and other timber—as there was an individual mentioned to him, that there was an act of Congress prohibiting the transportation of ship timber from this country to Europe, he remarked that he had obtained authority from the government to do so—
I remain with due respect Your obt Servi H. L. THISTLE
Agent for the preservation of Timber on public Land in East Florida A PUPSHER Secretary of the United States Navy

[Endorsed] Ret He must draw for it if he be entitled ans" July 8”
T 289 June 24 Hom
1842
Aug. 10—Req" 3618 Salary 500:--
Oct. 10– “ 3746 for exp" 1, 000:--
Dec. 19– “ 3836 Salary 500:--
1843
Feb. 13– “ 3922 Salary 344:--
21— “ 3934 Salary 500:__
2,844:--
Salary from May 1842 to Aug. 1843–2, 500:--
drawn for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,000:--
$500:--
</docbody>
<dochead>HENRY BARNARD, SR, TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E. F. June 16th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON A PUPSHUR SecY US Navy SIR. It is with no ordinary feelings of regret, that I take upon myself to inform you of an outrage committed on the public timber Agent, H L Thistle yesterday, by M. Darius Ferris one of the firm of Palmer & Ferris, who fell upon M* T, and beat him in a most unmerciful manner, for no other reason than that M T by the honesty and integrity of his course, as Agent of the Government, has procured the condemnation of the Brig “Nimrod” and a large quantity of Live Oak timber, which P. & F. cut on public lands during the past winter. Of the large number of persons present on the occasion of the outrage only one,—the Editor of the “Tropical Plant”—published at this place—had sufficient of friendly feeling toward M* Thistle, to interfere in his behalf, and even his interference was of no avail, as the persons present, and particularly M S D Fernandez, (whose name you undoubtedly have heard of, as desirous of the office held by M” Thistle, and also of the office of Collector of this Port) laid hands upon him, and prevented him from giving relief to M' Thistle, who, during the whole time nade no defence, nor indeed could he defend himself, so sudden and violent was the attack of M. Ferris.

It is more than suspected that Palmer & Ferris intend to take away the timber lying on the beach at New Smyrna, which was condemned and forfeited by the decision of the court of Admiralty. Mr Thistle stated to me a few days since that he had provided or shall provide for its protection—This, however, is his business to inform you, not mine—I take pleasure in saying of M. Thistle, that during a long residence in Florida, and an extensive acquaintance as a merchant I have never seen an officer of the Government so assiduous in his duty as he has been. Regardless of the opposition of all those whose interest is opposed to his continuance in office, (and they are as legion) he has from the first gone on in the course he thought right, and the decision of the Admiralty court has shown that his labor has not been in vain. Would he but lean on the side of Palmer & Ferris
(whose money and not their honesty makes them powerful) he would have made more money than his salary, and saved himself a beating.
It is pretended that the continuance of M* Thistle in the office of timber agent will only be an useless expense to the Government, there being, as is said, no timber to protect. Rest assured Sir, that where there is so much smoke, there must be some fire, and the timber which may yet be stolen exceeds by far the representation given of it by some interested persons. I write as a disinterested person. I do not own, or expect to own, a stick of timber in Florida. But I was brought up among honest people in the State of Connecticut, and will take the part of honest people in the Territory of Florida be they who they may"—
I am, Sir, Very Respectfully Your obt Servt HENRY BARNARD Sr
|Addressed] Hon A. P. Upshur Secy. U.S. Navy Washington D.C.
[Postmarked] Jacksonville Fla. June 20 Free
[Endorsed] Return file T 294 Jun 26. Hom”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>June 17, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Eq S. G. Tallahassee Flor. Ter.
SIR I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 25" Ult” relative to the proposed removal of your Office to Pilatka or S*Augustine, which has been placed on file in this Office.”

I have likewise to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the same date as the above,” reporting on the condition & progress of the surveys in your district under the late contract, & enclosing the Copy of a letter from M. A. M. Randolph, applying for reasons therein stated, for an extension of the time allowed for the completion of his surveying contract, till next fall, which you recommend may be granted, also the extension of the Contract of M* Whitner to the same period for similar reasons.”
In accordance with your recommendation you can allow the additional time asked, for the completion of the above contracts, but you will withhold payment for the work Completed & returned to your Office, or so much thereof as will ensure the future completion of the Contracts without loss to the United States.
It is stated in M* Randolph's letter that a reference to his notes will show that he has “carried lines for several miles in water from two to four feet deep, and only left them when the water was over the
“Jacob Staff” and it became impossible to set the compass,” as it cannot be readily Conceived how such lines could be marked on the field, if they have been returned as complete, you should be cautious how you pass the surveys, as lines not properly marked on the field are worse that no surveys at all.”
I am very respy Your Ob*S*
THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 276:LS]</source>
<place-time>Head Quarters: 9th Dep’t S*AUGUSTINE June 19* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>No 61
SIR: In fulfilment of an engagement to meet a deputation of Indians I shall leave the Head Quarters of the Department on the
26" inst for Fort Brooke, proposing on the route to visit the new settlements forming along the coast on both sides of the Peninsula and also to inspect the command and the state of the Barracks now erecting at Key West—I hope to return by the 15" prox”. Any Orders or communications requiring my attention will reach me in forty hours after being received at this place.
I have not deemed it necessary to make any statement touching a story of Indians outrage which, it is perceived, starting from a mis-

erable sheet published at Jacksonville is going the rounds of the press.
The recent attempt to murder a woman in the immediate neighborhood of Newnansville in the midst of a thick population and at noon day was clearly, from the attendant circumstances, not the work of Indians and such was the opinion of the community in which she resided; on the contrary, subsequent developments leave no doubt that it was the act of several desperate runaway negroes.
For eleven months, indeed since my announcement of August 14"
1842,” became known to the straggling bands, not an outrage or offensive act has been committed by Indians—unlooked for good fortune considering the utterly wild state in which the cessation of hostilities left these people.
L* Col° Hunt Dep’ Qr Mr General accompanies me to Tampa on an inspection into the concerns of his Department.
I am Sir Very Respectfully Your ob’t Serv't W. J. WORTH Brig Gen Comg THE ADJUTANT GENERAL OF THE ARMY Head Quarters Washington.
[Endorsed] No 61 Head Qrs: 9" Dept, St Augustine June 19
'43 W. J. Worth Brig Gen Comg Reports intention to leave for Fort Brooke, to meet a deputation of Indians—& visit the new settlements on the coast. &c &c Respectfully laid before the Sec:
of War June 27 R Jones A. g. This interesting report is respectfully laid before the Sec. of War for his information. Winfield Scott July
1/43 June 27, 1843 The Secy has seen this June 28"
</docbody>
<dochead>PHILIP FRASER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E. Fla. June 23° 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON. A. P. UPSHER Sec. U.S. Navy SIR Permit me to report to you something of the circumstances of a most gross and wanton outrage committed upon the person of Capt. H. L. Thistle Agent for the perservation of Timber on the Public Lands in East Florida by Darius Ferris partner of David L Palmer in contracts for furnishing Live Oak for the use of the Navy of the United States—I wish to do so because I think that you, Sir, as his immediate superior, should know the manner, in which Government officers are treated and the spirit in which they are received here in this Territory which has been so long fed and fattened by that Government—It seems then that Capt. Thistle in discharging what appeared to him his duty to the Government, 25 Not found.

interfered with the interests of Messrs Palmer & Ferris by seizing Live-Oak cut by them, as was alleged by the agent, on Public Lands, and also by procuring the condemnation of the Brig Nimrod which was freighted with Live-Oak at or near New-Smyrna on the southern coast—
For these causes Messrs Palmer & Ferris were very much enraged and from them originated a personal attack by Mr Ferris upon Capt. Thistle, of which I was an eye witness. The attack was gross furious and unprovoked by anything which I saw in the conduct of Capt. Thistle at the time, and was intended at once no doubt as vengeance and intimidation. Mr Ferris is a very large athletic powerful man in the vigor and prime of life, Few so powerful are found in our country, He is much above six feet in height While on the contrary Capt. Thistle is somewhat advanced in years and rather below the ordinary stature of man—impar congressus Achilli”
—With such physical advantage, and in a country where personal rights are too little regarded, Mr Ferris made the assault and beat most cruelly and unmercifully the Government Agent. For what?
For performing his duty as an officer—for manifesting a proper zeal in the service of his country—for following the dictates of conscience, in refusing to violate his oath of office–Can it be possible that in this free nation where men boast proudly of a system of self-government, that private individuals not only, but officers of the Government itself must be met by the mob-spirit at every turn—
Is this freedom? what worse tyranny can exist? Must personal rights be thus invaded and life endangered with impunity? Is the arm of the Government palsied that she cannot protect her own servants? Melancholy and deplorable as the fact may be, it is still too true that no adequate redress can be obtained for such an injury before the legal tribunal of this portion of the country—
Ought not then some means to be provided, some measures to be taken, to protect officers of the United States in the discharge of their duties?—
I can truly say for Capt Thistle, that I believe his zeal for the interest of the Government has been unbounded—his perseverance and energy untiring. No fatigue difficulties distance or expense, has prevented his appearing at the post where his duty called him—
He is always active—always on the alert—if he has ever overstepped the bounds of duty by doing too much that fact has yet to appear.
This however is the camplaint against him here—He does too much—
If he were quiescent and passive, if he merely drew his salary and amused himself with the proceeds—if he interfered with the interest

of no one he would be more popular here and would save money.
But does the Government need popular or faithful servants? that her interests should be protected—or merely that her offices should be filled and her money squandered?—I do not believe that Capt.
Thistle can have saved a penny from his pay. Indeed his expenses must have far outstripped his income, and he is a very prudent man—His office is no sinecure. I do not believe that an office requiring more labor exposure and hard service exists even in the Army or Navy—But I have already protracted this letter far beyond what I at first intended. I will venture one more remark, it is this—There are very few men who would be willing to brave the danger, or undergo the hardship of this office as Capt. Thistle has heretofore done, and is still doing—Excuse me if I have trespassed, but I trust I have not—
I have the Honor to be With much Respect Your Obedient Servant PHILIP FRASER
[Addressed] Hon A. P. Upsher Sec; U.S. Navy Washington D.C.
[Postmarked] Jacksonville Flor. Jun 25 Free
[Endorsed] Send a copy to the Dist Atty & request him to take the necessary steps Copy sent to Tho" Douglass Atty. St. Aug.
July 3.” T 302 July 3 Hom THOMAS H. BLAKE TO ROBERT J. HACKLEY AND ROBERT
</docbody>
<dochead>B. SAMPLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE June 26, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>R & R Tallahassee Florida.
GENTLEMEN. There has been transmitted to you a package containing a number of copies of the Executive proclamation bearing date 8" inst of a public sale to take place at your Office on the twenty third day of October next,” of a number of lots in the town of S'
Marks, under the provisions of the Act of Congress, approved June
30" 1834, entitled “An Act to authorize the sale of lots in the town of S*Marks, Florida”—These hand bills you are requested to distribute for the information of the public.—
The Act of March 2" 1833, entitled “An Act to establish a town at S’ Marks, Florida”,” requires that the President of the United States shall cause to be ascertained prior to the day of sale “the value of any
”See post, p. 677.

improvements which may have been made” on the lots designated in this advertisement “and the purchaser at public sale of any lot upon which there are such improvements other than the owner thereof, shall, in addition to the sum to be paid to the United States, be and hereby is, required to pay to the owner of the improvements the value of them as thus ascertained; and if payment therefor shall not be made upon the day on which the same was purchased, the lot shall be again offered at public sale on the next day of sale, and such person shall not be capable of becoming the purchaser of that or of any other lot offered at that public sale: Provided, that if any lot so offered and bid off on the last day of the public sale shall not be thus paid for, the same may be entered at private sale, upon paying to the United States the sum at which it was bid off, and to the owner of the improvements the previously ascertained value thereof.”
You are requested to report to this Office without unnecessary delay, what in your opinion is the most suitable & convenient mode of ascertaining the value of the improvements alluded to & what will be the probable expense attending the same.
Very respy Your Ob" St THO. H. BLAKE Com”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>GEN LAND OFFICE June 27, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>Reg S*Augustine Florida SIR I have received your letter of 6" ins** and in reference to the subject of it, I have procured a copy of the instructions dated 17"
Jan 1842,” from the Navy Department to Capt. Hezekiah L. Thistle;
of which copy I herewith send a transcript, & request that you will afford every proper facility to Capt. Thistle in the execution of his duties.
Where he applies for the reservation of timber lands, his application which of course should be in writing, should designate particularly &
minutely every tract, to the end that there may be no misapprehension as to the limits of the same.
All lands thus reserved should be promptly reported by you to this Office, in order that they may be properly represented on our records.
Very respy Your Obt St THO. H. BLAKE Com.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO REGISTERS AND RECEIVERS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE June 29" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER & RECEIVER Newnansville S*Augustine Florida.
GENTLEMEN. In continuation of the instructions in my letter of August 5" 1842,” under the Act of 4* August 1842, entitled “An Act to provide for the Armed Occupation and Settlement of the unsettled part of the Peninsula of East Florida,” I have on this occasion to advise you under the Direction of the President, respecting the proceedings to be had next in order, to wit, under the fourth condition and stipulation of the first Section of the Act, in the words following:
“That Such Settler Shall within one year after the Survey of Said lands and the opening of the proper Office for the entry and sale of the same by the United States, prove, before such tribunal and in such manner and form as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the Approval of the President, the fact that the settlement has been commenced and the particular quarter Section upon which it is located.”
With the Approbation of the President then the Register & Receiver are hereby constituted the “tribunal” before which the proof is to be made in regard to the cases contemplated by the Act.
With a view then to the proper execution of your duties and to facilitate operations under the law, you will observe the following directions.
1" In cases where the land was surveyed at the time of granting the Permit, the “Year” will commence with the Day when your Office was prepared to Act under the law; and you are requested to issue a Public Notice Setting forth such date, designating the particular township of land, the plats whereof were filed in your Office at that date, giving the names of the Settlers respectively in those townships to whom Permits have been granted, with the No" of their Permits [See form of Notice marked A] Note. Copies of such public Notices bearing a regular and consecutive Series of No" from N° 1 should it be found necessary to issue more than, one, should from time to time be forwarded to this Office; and at the expiration of the Year, a complete Return must be made indicating all the settlers in such townships who within the Year (the time stipulated) shall have complied with the requirements of law by shewing “the fact that the Settlement has been commenced, and the particular quarter Section on which it is located.”—Said Return

should designate the particular quarter Sections located by the respective settlers, and should also shew the names of those who may have failed to comply with the requirements of the Act. [See form of Return Marked B.]”
2" In cases where the lands was surveyed at any time Subsequent to the date aforesaid, you will regard the term of “one year” as Commencing from the day when the Surveyor General shall certify the township plat; and from time to time, as such township plats shall be received at your Office, you will issue a public Notice of the fact, giving a particular list of such townships, and the particular day when the term of one year will expire in each case. [See form of this Notice marked C.]
Note. It is not necessary to send to this Office copies of the public Notices under this 2" item of instructions, because such notices would serve no useful purpose, as they would not exhibit the settler's nanneS.
It is proper however, and you are therefore required to make Monthly Returns, consecutively numbered, of such settlers, as may from time to time within the “year” meet the requirements of the Act—those returns also to indicate the N° of Permit, and the particular designation of the quarter Section according to the public Surveys, [For form of monthly Return, See paper D.]”
At the expiration of the year in this class of cases, a complete Return is also required, similar to that called for in the Cases first referred to in the foregoing.
The Act provides “that in case of the Settlement of the Same quarter Section by two or more Settlers, the right to the location shall be determined by priority of Settlement, to be ascertained under such rules as the Commissioner of the General Land Office with the Approval of the President may prescribe; and the subsequent settler or settlers shall be permitted to locate the quantity, he, she, or they may be entitled to, elsewhere, within the same township upon vacant public lands.”
Cases may arise under this Section, where the cultivation by A
may be found to be precedent to that by B, and the erection of a dwelling by B was precedent to that by A. In such a case, priority of cultivation must govern. In cases coming within this provision of the law you are required to give a patient hearing to all the facts to be sustained by credible witnesses, which shall be adduced by the contending parties.

The Register and Receiver of the appropriate land District having been constituted by the President “the tribunal” referred to in the Act for determining on all claims arising under its provisions, it would be desirable that in all cases of Conflicting Claims the parties should appear before you with their respective witnesses, in order to give you an Opportunity of Cross examining the witnesses with a view to the more readily eliciting the truth of the case.”
Very Respectfully Your Obt Serv", THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surv" General TALLAHASSEE June 29" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I would respectfully call your attention to the fact, that my several communications of the 25" Ulto to you,” remain unanswered, which has led me to the belief that they may have miscarried. I feel more anxious in regard to one; of which the following is a copy “As Many of my Deputies are shortly expected to return from the field with their contracts complete, I have respectfully to request that you will have an amount placed to my credit at some convenient point, or by other means put me in possession of a sufficient sum to pay for the surveys executed under your instructions of 24* September last;” My deputies have all been at heavy expence to fit out and prosecute their work and I should regret that payment should be delayed.”
I would respectfully inform you that nearly all my Deputies have been here some time. Mr Thomas’ work was received some weeks since into the office; Mr Weightman's work has been in a week and M. Prevost's several days; Mr Reid is now here preparing his work which will be in the office in a few days. These Gent"
are waiting for settlement, that they may pay off their hands, (but few of them residing here, they are detained at a very heavy expense)
and many other matters which are urgent upon them

I should take it as an especial favor, if you would allow this subject to meet with your earliest convenient attention.
By next mail I will be able to forward to your office the return of M. E. L. Thomas Deputy Surveyor; the preparation of whose work is nearly complete, I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt.
V.Y. CONWAY Sur. Gen"
THOMAS H BLAKE Esqr Comm Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 29 June 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G.
Calls attention to his letter of 25 May, relative to payments to be made to his Deputies, & requests to be put in funds to pay them.
Answered July 8th 1843." Made requisition for $11000 of Gen.'
app" same day W.T. S. Steiger July 8, 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, Live Oak Lets.: C]</source>
<place-time>Copy JACKSONVILLE E F June 29" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. Knowing Your zeal for the welfare of the general government, I take the liberty to communicate with you concerning the collectors of customs in this Section of the country—I will first comment upon that of Jacksonville, and will remark that it is all important to have them act in accordance with me in protecting the government against those plunderers in Live oak, red cedar and other ship timber—
The act of 1833 provides for a protection in part by the collector, where he is directed by said law to be fully satisfied in his own mind that no part of any shipment of such timber from this Territory has been cut from the public land—Now I will state that the collector or acting collector of this port Judge Doggett" is most generally engaged as attorney for all the trespassers in this Section of the country in Live oak and other timber from the public Land and a very warm advocate for Palmer & Ferris. and I will not hesitate in saying that I do not regard him as a man of the strictest veracity for the office in which he is now acting, and from choice would sooner assist them in getting away a cargo of live oak unlawfully, from the public domain, and shut his eyes against any information that might be given him than to protect the rights of the Department—
I further state that I understand there are a great many applicants

from this place for that office under the impression that it will soon be vacant on account of the ill health of Mr Dell if he should not be otherwise removed—
I understand that Stephen D Fernandez is one of the applicants and several other gentlemen as I am informed with whom I am well acquainted, and I do consider that those who are thus desirous of that office, with a few exceptions, should either of them succeed in obtaining it, would discharge its duties with even less fidelity than the present acting collector if such was possible as regards ship timber being taken from the public domain—
I will state that there are but two gentlemen with whom I am acquainted in this place, who are competent, and who I think would be disposed to fill the office to the satisfaction of the department—
Henry D Holland who is a practising phisician and Phillip Fraser an attorney at Law—The latter if I am not mistaken is or has been an applicant—Doct Holland has not been such to my knowledge, as I have had no conversation with him upon the subject, and am not aware that he would accept, but have not the least doubt but he would as he has a family, and is a permanent resident of Jacksonville and am perfectly assured in my own mind that either of these gentlemen would do justice, and am also sure that both of them have gained enemies in vindicating the rights of government since my arrival in Jacksonville—
The Collector at St Augustine Mr AW Walker I have no fault to find with, as I have always found him ready and willing to protect the interest of the government especially against the Live oak trespasser—and men who attend most strictly to their duties, have generally the most fault found with them, and complaints sent to the department against them—
Before I close I will touch upon Mosquito, as I understand there is a light house to be built and a collector appointed for that port—I know of no applicant for that place except John D Sheldon. who is one of Palmer & Ferris' best strikers using an expression of Mules the celebrated negro stealer and conspiracer and no doubt he will come to the Department with high recommendations from Palmer &
Ferris. Stephen Fernandez, Ross & Holmes and all the combined force of this class, who are ready and willing to violate the laws of the United States in cutting Live oak timber—I speak plainly and from experience—At the time I was waylaid and so severely injured by Ferris, he was not only backed up by a guard of Live oakers, but had Stephen Fernandez and W* B Ross to assist him—It is proper for me to remark that this violent attack had been meditated for months and months and I have often been waylaid by a gang of their choice men which I had no great difficulty to repulse without

much personal injury to any one, but at this time Ferris made the attack when I was completely off my guard and unarmed, and the only and whole cause was on account of the strict discharge of my duty, in procuring the condemnation of the Brig Nimrod, and for bringing suits against them for trespassing upon the public domain, thinking they might intimidate me or prohibit me from using my vigilence—
but they are mistaken—as it will only increase my perseverence, and induce me to watch them more closely—
I shall be in Washington as soon as can receive a quarters Salary from the Secretary of the Navy, to enable me to bear my expenses there, when I shall be able to explain matters more fully to the heads of the different departments—
I have recovered from the injuries almost entirely that I received from Ferris On the 15th inst”
I remain Sir With much respect Your obt Servt Signed H L THISTLE Agent for the preservation of Timber &c on public Lands in East Florida JOHN C SPENCER Secretary of the U S Treasury Washington DC
[Endorsed] Thistle June 29th 1843. Enclosed in Thistle July 4*
</docbody>
<dochead>WALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, PLC Dockets, Fla. 6:LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE June 30" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Herewith is a copy of a letter received from M* Joseph Chaires—as stated therein M* Chaires did apply to my deputy M"
Prevost, while in the field to Survey the said grant, but the calls of it would carry it many miles out of his district. The petition asks for
“20,000 acres of land known as the Alachua lands about 80 miles distant from S*Augustine at a place known as big hammock about
20 miles from the river Suwanee and about 60 miles Westward from St Johns” The Survey as made by the Surveyor who originally located this grant was as follows
“I certify that I have measured and deliniated to Don Jose de la Maza Arredondo a peice of land which contains 20,000 acres, situated on both Margins of a Creek known as Alligator Creek, said land commences a little above the head of said Creek and Embraces an Indian town distant about 80 miles from the Post of Buena Vista, and about

traverse of said claim) *M* Prevost reports that no such creek exists in his district nor could he find any trace of any survey as above described within the limits of his Contract and it would appear evident that the calls would throw the grant many miles to the North and West—M Chaires however asserts that his claim is a large Hammock in the neighbourhood of Township 15 Range 22 S & E again my Deputy could have no other data by which to locate this claim, but the calls of the original Survey, as made under the eye of the grantee at the time when the subject was fresh upon their minds—I could not require him to locate it by measuring with chain and compass 20 miles from the river Suwanee, and sixty miles Westward from S' Johns, which in fact he could by no mode of measurement bring into his district. I have by request, placed this subject before you for advisement—and in connection, I would respectfully ask, if it would not be advantageous to the Government, to Employ a competent Surveyor whose sole business it shall be to locate and survey Private Land Claims in East Florida. I fear that continual litigation &
annoyance will arise under the present plan, the Surveys Sales &
Settlement of the Government lands would be greatly facilitated by having the location of these private claims fixed and determined.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt V. Y. CONWAY Sr G!
THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Comm” of the Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee June 30, 1843. Office of the Su Gen.'
V. Y. Conway Su Gen. Encloses a Copy of a letter from Joseph Chaires—in relation to the Survey of a tract of land owned by himself and other heirs of Genj. Chaires dec" of 20,000 acres in Florida—originally granted to Don Jose de la Maza Arrendondo.
R Wilson July 11, 1843 Answd July 31 1843 *
[Enclosure]
Joseph Chaires to Valentine Y. Conway TALLAHASSEE 6* June 1843.
TO THE SURVEYOR GENERAL at Tallahassee SIR, Application has been made by me to your deputies in East Florida, to survey and denote upon their returns to your office a tract of land owned by Myself and other Heirs of Benj'n Chaires deceased of twenty thousand acres originally granted to Don Jose de la Maza Arredondo by the Spanish Government and confirmed to the present

Claimants by a decree of the proper Court in East Florida which decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States at the January term 1836.
The difficulty now arrises that no such lands as those set forth in the Survey accompanying the decree are to be found; Nor any of the lines or marks denoted by the Surveyor nor the stream laid down upon his plat. It further appears that the said supposed survey of Don Andres Burgevin does not conform to the description of the lands granted to Arredondo in the original concession or in the more formal title of Gov. Coppinger dated 20" March 1817
Under these circumstances I have to ask of the Surveyor General that he will in the exercise of the discretion vested in him order a survey of the land designated in the Royal order according to the description therein given, it being evident either that the Survey of Burgevin is spurious altogether or that it was not intended to denote the lands to which it has been erroneously attached.
Very Respectfully Your Obdt Servt
(signd) JO” CHAIRES
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THOMAS DOUGLAS</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN General Letter Bk. 32]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT July 3” 1843</place-time>
<docbody>THOMAS DOUGLASS Esq U.S. Attorney, Eastern Dist: St. Augustine, E. F.
SIR, I transmit, herewith, copy of a letter from Philip Fraser, dated Jacksonville, E. F. June 23," detailing a gross attack made by M. Darius Ferris, Contractor, upon the person of Capt" Thistle, Agent for the preservation of Live Oak Timber in Florida.
That such an outrage should not pass unnoticed, and unpunished if found deserving of it upon investigation, I request that you will take the necessary steps to bring the matter before the Civil tribunals in your District.
I am resp' your obdt: Servt:
A. P. UPSHUR.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>July 7. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W.Y. CONWAY S. G. Tallahassee F. T.
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 12* inst." covering the copy of a letter addressed to you by W"

M. Cooley Esq. (a Justice of the Peace) dated at Homosassa East Florida on the subject of the necessity of surveys at that point to enable him to fill up applications for permits for settlers under the
“Armed occupation Act.”
You state in your letter that the lines of the old surveys, have all or nearly all, been obliterated, and that your Deputy M" Weightman whose contract joins them, after the most minute search has been unable to find any of them, you also refer to the letter addressed by this office to your predecessor on the 6* June 1837 * & his report in reply on the subject of the marks of the surveys supposed to have been obliterated by the Indians, & request to know the views of this office as to the proper course to be pursued.
In reply I have to state, that, it will be necessary for M" Weightman to re-establish the missing marks of the corners adjacent to his contract, by a re-survey from the nearest original corners, some of which it appears from your letter are still found on the lines in question.
In reference to the subject of renewing the missing marks generally, that subject will be taken up for consideration when the facts are reported, with your recommendation of a plan, and it will require a special appropriation to be made by Congress for the purpose.”
I am Sir Very resp? Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets, re Land:ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST. AUGUSTINE July 7th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HONB” CHARLES B. PENROSE Solicitor of the Treasury SIR. Enclosed is a memorandum taken from the Docket of the Superior court, held at this City at the close of June last, so far as the United States, are concerned in the land suits pending therein"—
The object in sending you a list of these causes, is to shew you the action taken by the court in each case. and to call your attention specially to some facts bearing on the three large claims in the names of Arredondo Senior and Junior amounting togather, to Three hundred and forty six thousand acres of land The propriety of consulting the President of the United States, as to such measures as should

be taken, to arrest the confirmation of these claims, is respectfully submitted to you. These claims were filed with the board of land commissioners, but the original grants were not produced then, but copys so called. were offered as evidence of title; nor are the original grants to be found here, in the office of Archives—The claimants pretend, these grants were taken from the Archives at this city, at the time Florida was transfered by Spain, to the United States, by some officer of the former government, and (for greater security)
were deposited in the office of a Notary in the City of Havana, where they say, they now are to be seen.
You will remember that during the administration of President Jackson, that he appointed & sent Genl. Call as the Agent of the United States, to Cuba to demand and receive of the Captain General, all papers relating to the lands in Florida that might be in Havana, under any pretence, & in the custody of any public office." The Captain General at that proposed to have dilivered to our Agent, all papers that were under his control, which of right appertained to the records of this Territory—Previous to Govr. Calls visit to Havana for the object mentioned, the Arredondos had filed their petitions with the board of land commissioners of East Florida, setting up their titles to these lands, and then copys of the grants only were filed ” It is strange that they did not point out to the Agent, the office of the Notary, where these grants are alledged to recorded & deposited. The parties now interested sent one of there attorneys last winter to Cuba, to procure the grants, which he failed to obtain—The Attorney (Mr. Gould) in an affidavit he made lately in court, for the continuance of these cases swears he saw the original grants in the office of Manuel. Fornari, then acting as Notary in the city of Havana, but could prevail” on the Notary to diliver up the papers; he further states he saw the cirtificates of Thomas de Aguilar to the grants—who is now dead. The claimants have taken out a commission & filed interrogatories, for the answers of cirtain witness,s there in named, to establish the authenticity of these grants, by proving the signatures of the former Spanish Governor White, and also the hand writing of his secretary Aguilar, and there is little doubt they will prove all that may be requested of them, for a gratuity sufficient for the trouble, of remembering with acuracy transactions of such long standing. Whether the President or your Department may deem it necessary to have some Agent in Havana to Superintend the taking of testimony now sought for to sustain

the grants, and to inspect them in the aforesaid Notarys office, as well as to inquire into the character of the witness,s who may be examined in favour of the Claimants is respectfully submitted. It is more than probable if special attention is not given, to this subject, the United States will be defrauded of three hundred and forty six thousand acres of land—My impression is strong from a knowledge of the facts in these cases, they are founded in gross fraud & forgery.
Under your instruction our Commercial Agent at Havana, could perhaps do all that could be effected, in sifting the testimony to be taken their, and assertaing the character & credibility of the witness, and seeking a view of the grants in the Notarys office, & taking copys of them lest they may be withdrawn & altered before they are established by proof. The Commercial Agent might perhaps through cirtain residents, who were intimate with Arredondo senior & junior discover, the true character of these grants—
You will observe by the list enclosed that the Honble William Marvin, has recently filed his petition & tittle in a suit against the United States for seven thousand acres of land. on the St. Johns river—The time limited, for suit on such claims, expired one year after the passage of the Act of Congress of 1828.” If the counsel for the United States were correct in this position, the Court had no jurisdiction of the subject matter and so it was urged in argument—
As the limitation had taken effect, and the claimant had not in time availed himself of the preveledge granted by the Act of Congress:
to sue the United States, he stood precisely in the same situation, as he was before the existence of the law.
It was insisted however for the claimant, that the act of May 1830.”
dispensed with the limitation of the act of 1828. because the latter act is silent on that point, and that suit now can be instituted as if no limitation was named in the act of 1828–Under the most liberal construction of both acts, the party sueing, could not do so longer than one year after the law of 1830, and the latter act appears but a prolongation of the preveledge limited by the law of 1828–If this provision was repealed by the act of 1830 it must be by implication, and if so, the other provisions & limitations of the law of 1828, are repealed in the same manner, although, it would seem the act of
1830 was expressley intended to inforce the general provisions of the law of 1828—The court decided as they considered the point of Jurisdiction doubtful not to turn the claimant out of court, observing that as the case must go up to the Supreme Court, they would confirm the claim, in order to have the questiones finally settled—We of course prayed an appeal, & the case will go up

The Petition filed by the Heirs of Turnbull against the United States for fifty seven thousand three hundred acres was dismissed for want of jurisdiction This was sufficient for us—but it was by no means the only point that would have defeated the claim.
It never can be sustained on its merits, and if the want of Jurisdiction, was over ruled in the Supreme Court. cirtain defeat awaits the claim.
I will further add that one of the claims in the name of Arredondo Senior covers in one body twenty thousand acres of land, as firtile as any land in Florida—it is on the North side of a bold & navigable river called Manitee, which flows into Tampa Bay The other claims if established will take a large portion of superior land on the Atlantic side of the Peninsula—If clear & cirtin titles could be had, these lands would now readily command ten dollars per acre—better sugar lands, or for the culture of tropical fruits & plants, is not to be found in our limits 55
Respectfully Your Obt Sert WM P DUVAL Counsel & Attorney for the United States in the Florida land claims
[Endorsed] Gov. Duval. St Augustine. E.F. 1843. July 7. Reports disposition of Cases at the June T. Superior Court, in which the U.S.
are interested. Particularly the Arredondo cases, in which it was proposed by the Claimants to take depositions in the Havanna 1843
July 20" Write Gov. Duval for name of the Commissioner in Havanna
&c. F.B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office STAUGUSTINE July 10" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith enclose my report of Land cases “Pending &
Decided” at the last March Term of our court, which was adjourned over to the 19* Ult, and closed on the 27" Ultimo & remain Sir with great respect yours &c THO DOUGLAS
C. B. PENROSE Esqr Sol U.S. Treasury City of Washington D.C.

[Endorsed] Thos. Douglas. U.S. Atty. St. Augustine. E.F. 1843.
July 10" Report of land cases pending &c Ans" July 28* 1843 *
Mr Brinley "will examine the question of law decided below as to the limitation in the Act of 26 May 1830 and prepare a brief The question if one of great importance M. Brinly.
[Enclosure: DS]
Report of Land Cases Pending or Decided in Superior Court, District of East Florida Report of suits instituted against the United States under the Acts of 23” May 1828 and 26" of May 1830, which were pending or decided in the March Term of the Superior Court of the District of East Florida at St Augustine in 1843, which Term closed on the 27" day of June 1843, Viz.
No of Acres Heirs of Jos. M Arredondo 40,000
Heirs of F M Arredondo 50,000
Heirs of F.M. Arredondo & M.E. Levy 256,000
These three suits were continued on motion of the claimants sustained by affidavits, but on such terms and conditions as it is believed will ensure a final disposition of them at the next Term.
Heirs of John M. Sanchez 400 acres Joseph S Sanchez 400 “
F M. Garvin & others 16,000 “
Francis R. Sanchez 500 “
Executors of James Dorly 23,040 “
John M Hanson & others 16 000 “
John Houston 700 “
Heirs of S. J. Eubanks 255 “
John Breward 16,000 “
These last nine suits were all continued, for want of proper Surveys and an order for a survey was made in each case for the lands claimed therein William H. Burrett & others 16,000 acres In this last case owing to the death of some of the claimants there was a want of proper parties & the case was necessarily continued that such parties might be made

Heirs of John Mizell 800 acres Nicholl Turnbull & others 57 300 “
These two cases were argued. submitted & rejected in the last case the claimants have prayed an appeal to the Supreme Court.
This is a case of considerable importance not only in regard to the quantity of land claimed in it. but as respects the quality of those lands, some of the tracts claimed have large quantities of valuable Timber upon them, it is said that the Live Oak Timber lately seized on board the Brig Nimrod, the trial & condemnation of which Brig
& the decree for the restoration of the Timber I some days since reported to you was cut on one of those tracts William Marvin 7 000. acres This last claim was filed on the 17" day of June 1843, under the act of 26" May 1830, which it was insisted contains no limitation as to the time of filing claims under it: in order immediately to test that question I filed an answer amongst other things denying the jurisdiction of the Court, upon which issue was joined, and the case was argued, Submitted and decided; The court held that it had jurisdiction of the case, that all the limitations, conditions and restrictions in that, applied to the adjudication of the claims after they may have been filed and not to the time of filing them. The court also decided that the claim was valid I have taken an appeal and shall send the case up at an early day in the hope that we may get the decision of the Supreme Court upon it at the next term I George R Fairbanks Clerk of the Superior Court for St Johns
& Musquito Counties District of East Florida do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true & correct report of the Land cases pending in said court at the Term aforesaid and that it shows the action of the court upon each claim respectively *
Witness my hand and the seal of said Court this 8" day of July AD 1843. at St Augustine E. F.
</docbody>
<dochead>GEO R FAIRBANKS. Clerk by JESSE A BRUSH his Deputy THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE July 10" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER OF THE LAND OFFICE S*Augustine Florida.
SIR: I received to day your letter of the 28" Ult” ” Stating that
“Applications having been made for portions of the Keys along

the Coast, and these Islands having been directed to be reserved from Sale by the Department,” you think “it right to consult” me
“as to the course to be pursued before” you “proceed to grant any Permits in these cases.”
Reserved Lands are not considered liable to the operations of the Armed Occupation Act, and you will consequently not grant permits for settlement on such lands."
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant, THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX.]</source>
<place-time>11" July 1843</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR, The Act of Congress passed on the 18" Feb 1841," entitled, “An Act supplementary to an Act entitled ‘An Act to encourage the introduction and promote the cultivation of tropical plants'
approved seventh July eighteen hundred and thirty eight,” declares that the widow of Doct. Perrine and his surviving children are
“entitled to all the rights and benefits vested in and granted to the said Doct' Perrine” by the Act approved July 7, 1838,” and extending the time limited by said Act to “eight years from and after the time when the present Indian War in Florida shall cease and determine.”
Your predecessor was instructed by this Office on the 29" June
1840" to survey the township granted under the direction of D"
Perrine, & with his letter of the 7" July following,” transmitted the copy of a letter addressed by him on the same day to the former, requesting him to designate some competent person for the survey living convenient to the site previously selected, & proposing other arrangements for carrying the law & instructions into immediate effect: The files and records of this Office shew no further correspondence on the subject, until the receipt of a letter bearing date 4" inst, from Mess” A., & J. E. Kendall of this place requesting information as to the present State of the business.”

I will thank you to report to this Office at your earliest convenience, what further action, if any, has been had at your Office, accompanied by copies of the correspondence, since the 11" July 1840, the date of your predecessor's letter above referred to, in order that this Office may be prepared to take such further action in the matter as may be necessary & proper, whenever the legally constituted representatives of Doct' Perrine shall make application.
I am very rspy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO W. E. KILCREASE</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book O-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT July 12” 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>W. E. KILCREASE Esq. Quincy, Gadsden Co Flo.
The case of supposed loss by mail communicated in yours of the
5* inst.” has been transmitted, for investigation to L. G. Alexander, Esq. a Spl. Agt. of this Dept. who will institute enquiry into the facts and circumstances, and, if successful, will apprise you of the result."
C.A.W.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Misc. Lets. Recd. ALS]</source>
<place-time>Fullers Hotel. WASHINGTON July 12, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR It had by my purpose to call to see you, but have been confined to my bed for a week past, and feel too weak still to venture so far. As I am informed however that you think of deciding today upon the plan you will adopt for the dock at Pensacola, I have concluded to address you a brief line upon the subject.
I wished to request of you to make it a stipulation of the contract that the work should be done at Pensacola. The appropriation was urged by the South and independently of the advantage of the dock, the benefit of the employment of labours, & disbursement of app" at Pensacola, is of course a fair incident. I mention this because I
understand, that it is in contemplation of one of the contractors, to in case his plan is prefered, to have the principal part of the work done in New York.
The ease with which the Independence entered the harbor of Pensacola, induces me to hope that the contract you make will contemplate a dock which may be enlarged before the work is done to a deek one suitable for large frigates, should Congress so direct at the next session.

In reference to the plan, it does not perhaps become me to express a preference, not being much skilled in such matters—but as it is a subject I feel great interest in, and which the people of the Territory are solicitous about, I would respectfully take leave to say, that so far as I could judge, the plan of Gilberts dock is infinitely best adapted to the harbor & circumstances of the Pensacola station. I may properly add, that this was the plan which was generally prefered in the House, and it w" have been so specified, but that we concluded it best to leave you untrammeled, in case any further experiments or facts, should lead you to prefer some other plan.”
I am With great respect Your Obt St D. LEVY
HON A. P. UPSHUR Secy of the Navy.
[Addressed] Hon. A. P. Upshur Sec of the Navy Washington. D.
Levy
[Endorsed] file L 18 July 24 Hom *
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, Ix]</source>
<place-time>July 13, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee F. T.
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of
29" Ult° " transmitting township plats & copies of field notes of Survey of the townships therein enumerated, situated near the mouth of the Suwannee River, surveyed by E. L. Thomas, under his contract of last fall, which have been placed on file in this office.
You remark in your letter, that the remainder of the district of M Thomas is (as Certified to) entirely impracticable, & his certificate appears on the face of several of the plats. Since none of the above plats extend West of the Suwannee River, is it to be inferred from your remark, that there are no lands in his district west of that river, & that he has surveyed all the land in his district east of the river.
If you are not certain of this fact, it should be ascertained to your satisfaction previous to your paying M Thomas for the work returned, and if he has left any land unsurveyed, he should be sent back to complete the work under his contract, or a sufficient amount of his

pay withheld to enable you to employ some other Deputy for the purpose at an advanced price if necessary.
You will pursue a similar course in all such cases as the above, to prevent the Deputies leaving the difficult surveys in their districts unfinished, & thus causing an accumulation of small unsurveyed fractions scattered over your Surveying district, for the Survey of which as past experience has shown, Deputies cannot hereafter be procured at the price allowed in the original Contracts.
Enclosed is a copy of the instructions of this Office of 4* March
1840," to your predecessor, reserving by order of the President, the Cedar Key Islands for Military purposes, which as therein required should have been noted by you on the plats of frac' tp 15 R 13 E, on which said Islands are laid down. The omission on the plat in this Office has been supplied, & a copy of the instructions of 4" March, has this day been transmitted to the Land Officers at Newnansville, accompanied with the request that they will complete the plat in their office.—You will please supply the omission on your plat."
I am Very respy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT July 14" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY, Washington.
SIR, In answer to your letter of the 6" instant” I transmit herewith a report of the Officer in charge of the Ordnance Bureau, by which you will see that by the regulations for arming and equipping the militia, no arms are due and none can be distributed to the Florida Territory.”
J M. P.
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E F July 14 1843</place-time>
<docbody>A PUPSHUR Secretary of the United States Navy SIR I have had an interview this day with Mr Boushell, Agent for Messrs Hopkins & Allmand for cutting Live oak timber. and as he has asserted in my presence and that of other gentlemen of this

place that he has taken advantage of the Bond which he has given me and which is filed in Your office. for cutting Live oak upon land that was occupied by Maj Taylor, Simpson and others under the act of Congress of 4* Aug. last, for the armed occupation of Florida.”
which timber is deadend or girdled, and having asserted that he has cut Timber all over that Section, on other lands where the Timber was not deadened or girdled, which is Government land. I therefore have made a seizure of all the cargo on board the Brig “Virginia”
and marked such Timber as could be come at with the letters U.S.
and ship it to the Norfolk Navy Yard for the use and benefit of the United States, in the Brig “Virginia (owned by Capt Willey) until further investigation, which I would then refer to your better judgment for decision—
The Brig Virginia, is no ways liable herself for taking on board said live oak, as it was done my permission, previous to my knowledge of these facts, but she will be liable if she fails in delivering a copy of this document to the commander of the Norfolk Navy Yard, which Notice will be duly served upon him—
I would refer you to my letter of Jan 28th 1843* in which the Bond was enclosed—The Bond bears date of Jan 19th 1843.”
I remain Sir With respect Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for the preservation of Live oak and other timber upon the public Land in East Florida A copy of the Notice on 2" page
[Endorsed] Thistle July 14/43 Accuses Boushell of taking advantage of the bond—The Virginia not liable T 21 July 25 Call
[Enclosure]
Notice The owner or owners of the Brig Virginia, and all others who may be concerned, that this day I make a seizure of all the Cargo of Live oak now on board said Brig, laying at Willey's wharf, in the name of the United States, and by the authority invested in me by act of Congress, and by virtue of a commission from the Secretary of the Navy, for the protection of ship Timber upon the public lands in East Florida—having good and sufficient reason to believe that a part or the whole of said Timber has been cut upon the Public land by Joseph Boushell without proper authority

And I have marked all of said timber that could be come at with the letters U.S. and respectfully request that the owner or Master of said vessel will deliver the same to the Norfolk Navy Yard. subject to this seizure, as by so doing the Brig will not be rendered liable—
The amount of said Timber being one hundred & sixty nine pieces or
3800 cubic feet H. L. Thistle Agent for the preservation of Live oak and other timber upon the public Land in East Florida JACKSONVILLE E F July 14* 1843
N.B. a copy of this letter & notice has been forwarded to the Comdg officer of the Navy Yard Norfolk—Very respectfully H. L. T
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO ROBERT J. HACKLEY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>19 July 1843 R. J. HACKLEY Register &c Tallahassee Florida.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Herewith is enclosed for your information a copy of a letter from this Office dated 17" inst, to Thomas Baltzell Esq,” respecting selections of land for a Seminary of learning in Florida, made, it is understood, by, or under the authority of Gov. Duvall, pursuant to instructions issued direct from the Treasury Department."
In your letter of 19" June last "you state that “the entire correspondence” (with your Office) “was consumed by the late fire”
at Tallahassee, and that “other papers &c. may also be lost but are not missed.”
You are hereby requested to prepare a Schedule of the papers &
documents that were saved—describing those that are in parcels by the subjects treated on, without particularizing each individual letter or paper.—Also a description of the books—plats—numbers of the patents &c now in your Office; which you will please transmit to this Office, in order that all missing papers &c may be supplied as far as practicable.
Very respy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Com”

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT July 20: 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY, Washington.
SIR, In answer to your letter of the 18: instant,” I transmit a report of the Officer in charge of the Ordnance Bureau, by which it appears that agreeably to former usage the arms required for a volunteer Corps in Florida may be loaned on the bond of the Officers of such corps, provided the Governor agrees to the arrangement and will receive the bond hereafter as part of the quota of arms that may become due to the Territory when further supplies are authorised in the distribution for arming and equipping the whole body of the militia of the country.
J.M.P.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE July 20" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of 7" Inst" upon the subject of obliterated lines in the former surveys, and stating that “it will be necessary for M" Weightman to re-establish the missing marks of the corners adjacent to his contract by a re-survey from the nearest original corners”
Accompanying you have a copy of a letter from M* Weightman on the foregoing subject,” and as this statement is fully corroborated by Mr Prevost and other Deputies, whose duty it was to find (if possible) old marks & corners, I am constrained to give credit to the report;
Mr Weightman has extended his lines west according to the instructions furnished him; and has set up new corners so that when these lines are re-marked there will be no difficulty in closing upon his work.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt.
V. Y. CONWAY SF Gl THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Comm Gen' Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 20 July 1843 W. Y. Conway S.G. Ack"
receipt of letter of 7 inst, & in reply encloses a letter from M* Weight-

man on the subject. Answered August 4 1843 * to make the within marks a subject in his annual report & estimate. W.T.S. Steiger July 31, 1843
-:
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E F July 20th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR—I herein report to You all the facts which have come to my knowledge concerning trespass upon the public domain in East Florida–
On my arrival in the Territory and entering upon my duties as Agent on the 9" of May 1842,” I found that the Public Land in the neighborhood of the river St Johns and all the principal bayous and creeks connected with that river as far as “Lake George” had been stripped of most of its valuable Live oak and red Cedar timber.—
On looking thoroughly into the matter I found that the principle trespassers were those who had Government contracts, and who had disposing of timber to the Government for its full value—
The only persons I found then engaged in cutting Live oak timber were Palmer & Ferris—They had resorted to the method of having eighths of sections surveyed in different hammocks, and representing to the inhabitants that they had entered and paid for such land, have cut and carried away all the Live oak from hundreds of acres in the vicinity of these surveys.—I have ascertained, on examination of the books at the land office in St Augustine up to the date of February
1843 that they have neither entered nor paid for the first foot of public land in East Florida–
You will perceive by my communications now before the Department that I have taken the proper steps through the courts of East Florida to check this mode of plunder and to secure to the Government the amount of damages sustained by these trespasses.—
You will perceive on file where I have mad a seizure of two cargoes of Live oak which were shipped to Norfolk for the benefit of the United States.—The Brig which was seized at “Mosquito” was

condemned with the cargo and I have likewise caused and directed suits to be instituted against the parties for damages to the amount of two hundred thousand dollars, and to represent more clearly their determination to persist in trespassing. I will here subjoin the decision of Judge Bronson in the case of the Brig “Nimrod” and cargo above alluded to which was tried in the court of admiralty at St Augustine in April last—
On application to the Land office in St Augustine to which I was referred in my instructions from the Department, I found it impossible to obtain such information as would enable me distinguish private from public Land, as private grants which had been confirmed and whose locations were named and designated. had been sectioned of as Public land and sub divided.—Such information moreover as could be afforded at that office was not of that practical nature, as would enable me to sustain suits on behalf of Government, or to justify the institution of suits at all, without employing a surveyor who could trace out the lines of these Spanish and other grants and establish the fact of trespass beyond doubt.—Neither could I make a seizure of any timber, although confident in my own mind that the same had been cut from the public land, without possitive surveys, for in many cases grants have been claimed in sections of the country entirely remote from the named location, and in any direction from the true starting point that interest or convenience might dictate.—
I have instituted suits against Blanchard & Parsons for the recovery of damages to the amount of Fifty thousand dollars for trespass upon pine timber—
I have received information that considerable trespass has been committed on the river St Marys for supplying Alburti's Mill with pine timber.—for which I shall cause suits to be brought as soon as I can collect sufficient testimony to sustain Government in the same—
I would beg leave to call Your attention to the Mill grant of Charles Sibbald on Trout and six mile creek of 16000 acres which was ceeded to him by the Spanish Government.—He purported to have ten thousand acres surveyed at the above named place, in an irregular form and representing that there was no more public land in that section, caused four thousand acres to be surveyed in “Turnbull's swamp “Mosquito” and two thousand acres in “Bow Leg hammock
“Nassau”—The Superior court of East Florida decided against the two seperate surveys, authorizing at the same time that the six thousand acres would be surveyed in connection with the ten thousand above named—Mr Sibbald then appealed to the Supreme court at Washington and there stated in his petition that He could not get his full compliment of Land on Trout creek without interfering with private grants, and being aided by other testimony cooperating with

his petition, it was decided that he should receive his land according to the representations of the different surveys alledged to have been made.—
This decision will be found on pages 313 & 325 10" vol Peters reports, and also on pages 488 to 496 vol 12" same work—You will perceive by a diagram of Townships accompanying this document *
that if the Government had been properly represented, a decision would not have been given by which he has obtained not less than thirty or forty thousand dollars worth of valuable timber exclusive of the land.—
The Yellow boundary marked “A” represents the survey made under my superintendance, of ten thousand acres according to the decision of the court—The blue line marked “B” was added by my direction, to supply the deficiency in the ten thousand acres, which was called for within the yellow line.—The square section bounded by the red line marked “C” will show that he could have received the entire sixteen thousand acres in a square form, without interfering with any private grant of an older date than his.—The circular line marked “D” describes the outside of the space that he cut over in procuring Live oak and Saw logs which is public land as the decision of the court now stands—If I had not surveyed this grant and laid it down on the township plats, it would have been a long time before it would have been discovered that the statements of Mr Sibbald in his petition were incorrect in relation to the deficiency of Land, and the evidence which he had in this case must have been ignorant of the nature of their oath when they testified to the matter sett forth in his petition—From the details of this case it will be easily perceived in what manner advantage is taken of the General Government where its interests are not properly attended to.—There are many cases which could be furnished similar to this and some on a more extensive scale, but I have selected for Your consideration the above as being a plain and convenient one, and as Mr Sibbald is a gentleman of influence, if any injustice has been exercised toward him he will be fully competent to obtain redress—
It would no doubt be beneficial to the General Government to examine the claims of Mose E Levy and G. J. F. Clarke and see if they are located according to the call of the grant.—
The great evil now existing is occasioned by persons holding private grants, declining to bring forward the plats and papers connected with the same to the Surveyor General during the prosecution of the public surveys, by which neglect many private grants are sectioned off as public land and no doubt an evil which occurred in many

instances within the last eighteen months, although public notice was given, and a request issued in the strongest terms by the Surveyor General to be furnished with them—
The Department will not fail to perceive the confusion which will ensue and the difficulty which will be experienced by the Governments in securing just rights unless congress shall appropriate the necessary means to locate and survey these private grants and appoint a surveyor whose duty it shall be under proper restriction for the faithfull performance of the same, to apply to the keeper of the public archives for all plats and papers relative to private land claims which may not be voluntarily furnished to him by the claimants, and whenever a starting point can be found, to have an effectual survey made.—Although I would remark that it would be difficult in many cases to find any on account of the numerous chimney corner or floating surveys as I term them—. Many surveys of this description according to report were made by G. J. F. Clarke former Surveyor General of Florida under the Spanish Government—and purport to have been done at a time when it is well known that a chain was not permitted by the Indians then occupying that section of the country, to be stretched upon the land—
He would float down the river St Johns in a canoe and when he passed a location which suited his views he might in some cases have marked a tree upon the Shore then calling for his course and distance would protract, the same on paper as though the survey had been done—At other times without going beyond his drawing room, from descriptions furnished by Indian interpreters or Indian negroes, who could be hired for that purpose, would make plats of Land, and for his skill in the performance of such duty would receive a high salary and sometimes a large portion of the land he pretended to have surveyed for different individuals. Among the numerous Surveys of this Suspicious and valueless character, indicating by their description the imposition practised upon the Government, I would refer You in the book of Land claims accompanying this document," particularly to the grants which will be found on the following pages viz 129–
130–131–137–138–139–13–128–131—132–140–141–142—&c many of which to my certain knowledge have no mark that would justify a surveyor to assume it as a starting point and according to a decision of Judge Story, when a location or starting point cannot be established no claim can exist although a grant may have been confirmed. The Evil which must inevitably result in the final adjustment of claims of this character can be obviated by no other means than that of Government surveys as previously suggested.—

Great advantages on the contrary would be attained by the Government, and the just claims of citizens would be secured to them, by having an early attention paid to these surveys, -as but few reservations can be made with safety in the eastern sections of the country until some distinction is made between private and public Land and notwithstanding the value to Land bearing Live Oak timber by our Government for naval purposes, it is daily sought for and purchased by private citizens for the exclusive object of speculating in its timber.
It is obvious therefore that no time should be lost in authorizing these surveys in order that a reservation should be made for all the Live oak, Red cedar and other ship timber that may be required for the present and future necessities of the Government, having such reservations carefully and distinctly marked at intervals of about twenty chains, as “reserve land” to prevent the possibility of any encroachment by settlers through ignorance,—For if so reserved there is still an abondance, should it be left to be purchased without restraint by private individuals, or to the reckless plunder of Live oak contractors, the Government would soon suffer for a sufficient supply or be driven to purchase at exhorbitant prices—
Should this subject meet with the zeal and attention manifested by Congress in relation to a Live oak orchard some years past, and which was actually commenced with a view to plant and cultivate it will plainly appear, that there is no necessity of resorting to a method so delatory and expensive, as there is one now in Florida planted by the hand of nature and which could be made available at an expense immeasureably less.—And should there be a deficiency I would beg leave to suggest whether it would not be advisable to purchase such private tracts as may be covered with valuable timber for ship building, as it is a well known fact that European Governments have authorized agents here who are endeavouring to buy up such land or to contract for a supply of timber for their respective navies.
I would state that there are large quantities of valuable Live oak timber on the “Ouithlacoochee”. There is choice timber also on the Hillsborrough river and indian river of which it will be entirely impossible to make reservations to any extent, until the surveys heretofore suggested shall have been made—
There is also Live oak, red cedar, and other Superior timber for ship building in the neighbourhood of Lake Harney. Lake Poinsett. and at intervals to the head of the river St Johns which You will perceive runs parralel with the sea board, and at various points on navigable water in connection with Indian river at a distance varying from fourteen to sixteen miles and which with a triffling expense could be made accessable to flats drawing from two to two

and a half feet water.—I have information from those who have been further South that there is choice timber for naval purposes at St Sebastian, St Lucies river, Lochahatchee, opposite Jupiter inlet, at Lake Worth, and in fact all through that Section of country, of which reservations could with facility as there are but one or two private grants to interfere—
I am enabled from personal observation to state that there are valuable tracts on the Kissimmee river which empties into Lake Ocheechobee also at Carloosahatchee, and Charlottes harbour, all of which except that on the Kissimmee are on navigable streams, carrying over the bar from nine to fourteen feet water.—Capt Powell informs me that those beautiful groves above named remain yet undisturbed but if not strictly attended to the ensuing winter a great portion of it will be seized upon as common plunder, as there is neither civil nor military power on that side to protect it, which will be considered a great inducement to persons desirous of procuring the material—I would respectfully suggest the necessity of having these reservations made without delay.—
I will now sett forth the means necessary to effect this object and likewise such meesures as I consider adequate to protect the government against trespass—
It would require a Schooner of about Fifty tons burthen with centre board, and a draft of water not to exceed four feet, provided with a thorough going Captain and mate who are not afraid of fatigue and well acquainted with the coast, with a detachment of eight or ten marines—likewise a small Schooner boat of eighteen or twenty tons made of light material and not drawing over two feet of water, with ten or fifteen men and and three months provisions.
A portion of these men should be marines who could answer the purpose of sailors and boat hands in the small craft. While in the Schooner of fifty tons to the marines already described it might require one or two regular seaman. The small Schooner could protect all the timber in the different Lakes, creeks and rivers from the mouth of the river St Johns to its head that at Mosquito, Indian river and in fact the entire eastern coast—while the Schooner of fifty tons could keep a perfect lookout on the Gulf side and cruise from Cape Sable to the mouth of the Suwannee river—
It would be advantageous to have an assistant appointed on the gulf side whose duty it should be to guard the public domain from the encroachments of the numerous settlers. who are located there under the act for the armed occupation and settlement of Florida, as much traffic in live oak will be carried on this winter. Since it has been decided by the Attorney General, that they are permitted to dispose of the timber—

By a reference to a letter in the department You will perceive that my life has been attempted by an assault made upon me by Darius Ferris,” which fact being corroborated from a letter from Phillip Fraser and also one from Henry Barnard, forwarded to the Department near that date. Added to the fact that the United States Whale boat in my service as agent was wantonly sunk by persons unknown. You will be convinced of the importance of the marines I have asked for in the protection of life and property—You will likewise perceive by a reference to a correspondence between Genl Worth and my self. accompanying this document that no assistance can be expected from the United States troops stationed in Florida.—
These marines should be stout active men who could act as chainmen and flagmen in all the surveys necessary for making reservations and in designating private from public land—
I think it would be a saving and all important to have an assistant attorney appointed who would devote his whole time and attention to the interests of the Government, and a clerk capable of copying plats and keeping a book of entries of all the lands and their location which might be reserved for naval purposes—This means placed at the disposal of the Agent who should exercise dilligence and perseverence could so organise and arrange this branch of service in two years as to enable a single individual with a small steamboat or schooner and a suitable crew to protect all the timber in east Florida–
I would beg leave to draw Your attention to the “haulover” from
“Mosquito” to Indian river—the distance being 750 yards through shell stone of very easy excavation—By cutting a canal through at this place of twenty or twenty two feet in breadth with about five feet depth I am confident would not cost over six thousand dollars and would open a water communication to a very valuable tract of ship timber, and afford at the same time great facilities to the agent in its protection. by admitting a water communication through to the everglades, avoiding the present dangerous and tideous navigation outside from Mosquito to Indian river Bar—and likewise throwing an immense quantity of land into market—
By an additional expense of four or five thousand dollars a water communication could be effected by way of Lake “Ocheechobee”
and the Carloosahatchee, clear through to Charlottes Harbour on the Gulf side—
I would draw your attention to the pine timber and likewise to the Black cypress; the latter is equally durable and of much greater strength than the red cedar and admirably suited for spars and upper timber, when it was necessary to have the vessel built light and

strong—It would no doubt be beneficial to have some of the Swamps bearing this species of timber reserved—
The Yellow pine is of superior quality to that of the same growth in North or South Carolina and preferable to any other for the Gun decks of our ships of war.—It should be reccollected that the principle cause of the superiority of the various descriptions of timber in Florida is its proximity to the Sea board and being impregnated with the Saline properties of the atmosphere, the texture is firmer and the Timber more durable—
There is at present a great quantity of this desscription of timber, but its abundance will not be of long duration, as mills are daily erecting for its consumption—It is taken first from the vicinity of navigable water and mostly from the public domain, as it is thus procured free of cost, and when the timber is once removed if there should be no other detriment to the General Government the land is rendered unavailable, as much of this land is valuable for no other purpose than for its timber, when once stripped there would be no inducement to purchase it—
All of which is respectfully submitted for Your consideration H. L. Thistle Agent for the preservation of Live oak &
other timber upon the public Land in East Florida *
HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy Washington D.C.
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER ANDERSON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>PENSACOLA July 25" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON: D. HENSHAW
SIR Frequent complaints have been made to me in my official character, of depredations committed upon the lands of the United States in this vicinity reserved as Live oak Plantations—Heartily desirous of arresting so great an evil, I have had frequest conferences with M* Antoine Collins the Keeper of the Live Oak Plantation (so called) on Santa Rosa Sound with a view of procuring such evidence as might enable me to prosecute the trespassers to conviction and I
have now the names of some fifteen persons who have been cutting oak & other valuable timbers along the margin of this Bay & of the Sound, but neither M Collins or myself have the means of ascertain-

ing what lands yet belong to the United States and what have been offered for sale.
May I ask of you the favor to furnish either M Collins or myself with such a chart of the reserved lands on the waters of this Bay as will be our guide in accomplishing the object of arresting the depredations now being carried on!
I will take advantage of this opportunity, to solicit respectfully your attention to the whole subject of growing and protecting the live oak on the waters of this Bay. The Depredations committed on that timber have been very extensive & still continue—To furnish a single barge load of firewood, frequently such waste & injury is committed as can not be repaired in many years—and that an enormous wrong is done to the government for an individual benefit scarcely worth consideration. There is no person whose proper business it seems to be to guard this species of property—M Collins, who seems desirous of doing every thing within the scope of his authority, is only “Keeper of the Live Oak plantation”—a piece of property consisting of a few hundred acres about ten miles from this City. That particular tract he protects with all proper fidelity & he aids me in finding out those who trespass on the other public lands, but he has no authority to interpose in any way to prevent the trespass—We have no live oak agent & there has never been I believe any force detached to drive off persons committing the depredations.
I would respectfully submit to your consideration the expediency of adopting some system which would embrase the twofold object of preserving the live oak we already have and cultivating other plantations. To one accustomed to observe the slow growth of the Oak species in Northern climates, the rapid growth of the Live Oak in this latitude is truly astonishing—I have seen trees more than a foot in diameter in favorable situations which have not been planted thirty years & such favorable situations abound in this part of Florida.—
It is true that abortive attempts have been made to cultivate this tree but the spots selected have been most unfit for such a purpose &
were chosen apparently with for no other reason than their immediate vicinity to the Navy Yard.
I have the honor to be Sir! Very respectfully Your obt Servant WALKER ANDERSON U.S. Attorney for the district of West Florida
[Endorsed] Anderson July 25" 1843. A 30 Aug 7. Call M" Cal”
exmine & Return There are no reserved lands in Florida.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO ROBERT J. HACKLEY AND ROBERT B. SAMPLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets, to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE July 28, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>REG & REC LAND OFFICE Tallahassee Florida GENTLEMAN, Your letter of 13" inst.” has been received, wherein you suggest the appointment, by the President, of three disinterested persons to value, in conformity with the provisions of the Act of Congress approved March 2" 1833, entitled “An Act to establish a town at S* Marks in Florida,” the lots in said town recently advertised for sale.
I have this day been advised of the approval of the course proposed and therefore, on the receipt hereof, you will select three good and disinterested men to make the assessment and return thereof to you for your government in the case.
You will, of course, perceive the necessity of selecting such individuals as will be acceptable to the residents of the town, and in the event, from any cause, of the inability of any such appointees to execute the service required, you will promptly make a new appointment.
Very respy Your Obt St THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE, July 29* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Your communication of the 13" inst." acknowledging the receipt of the Township Plats & Copies of Field Notes of Survey by E. L. Thomas under his contract of last fall, is received. Accompanying you have a copy of a certificate which I required him to give in accordance with his verbal statement, upon the receipt of his work into this office.” In your letter as above you say “Since none of the above plats extend west of the Suwannee River, it is to be inferred from your remark that there are no lands in his district West of that river, and that he has surveyed all the lands in his district east of the river. If you are not certain of this fact, it should be ascertained to your satisfaction previous to your paying M Thomas for the work returned, and if he has left any land unsurveyed, he should be sent back to complete the work under his contract”&c.

There are perhaps some three townships of Land west of the Suwannee, and it was with this knowledge that I required the accompanying certificate, which I had every reason to believe the truth of, as the said work had been previously returned as impracticable by R. C.
Allen in first quarter 1829, (the same Season of the year, in which Mr Thomas was out,) and I have been assured of this fact by persons who have visited that section of the country I was therefore surprised, taking into consideration all that I had heard and knew of that district, that M Thomas succeeded in surveying the whole number of miles allowed him by his contract and instructions—it is barely possible that in a very dry Season, these Townships could be surveyed, but I entertain no doubt of the entire impracticability of doing so at the period when Mr Thomas was in the field. Under the circumstances, I cannot see how he can be required to return and survey any more under that contract, which required him to run out 350
miles, and his special instructions say “You are not to over-run your contract” (carrying out the views contained in your letter of 24”
Sept last * Limiting the amount to be surveyed.)
Again, it is utterly impracticable for any accurate estimate to be made of the extent of lands, or their practicability in an unsurveyed tract of Country; we may imagine that a certain district contains a certain N° of Townships, but when a chain shall be stretched over it, it may prove to be more or less. I would therefore respectfully ask by way of instructions which shall govern me in these, and (as far as may be) in all future operations, whether, when it shall so turn out that a named district contains much more land than was supposed, and my deputies have completed the number of miles required of them by their contract, I am to insist on the further survey of the unestimated or unexpected surplus. The contracts of Mess” Reid & Randdolph are thus circumstanced—I should therefore like to hear from you on this subject at your earliest convenience.
In the recent surveys, when there have been an unlimited number of exteriors to run out & a given number of Townships to Section, I
have instructed my deputies to do no more Townshipping, than would allow them in the fulfillment of their contract to Section the number required; this I thought was the most desirable course, as the object of the government (to wit) to bring as much land as possible into market,) would by any other course have been defeated.
In conformity with your letter I have with-held the payment of M Thomas, until Ishall hearfurther from you on this subject, & haveno doubt you will agree with me, when you look at all the circumstances, ** Ante, p. 544.

that he is fully entitled to receive payment for the work returned.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr. Obd" Serv'
V. Y. CONWAY Sr Gl THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Comr. Gen' Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Fl. 29 July 1843 W. Y. Conway S. Gen.'
Ack the receipt of letter of 13 inst. ack" recp" of Townp. plats & copies of Field Notes of Survey by E. F. Thomas under his contract of last fall—Encloses copy of a certificate req" of S" Thomas, in accordance with his verbal Statement on the receipt of his work into the office—
Has withheld payment from Mr Thomas, until further instructions.
Answered Aug. 16 1843 * W. T. S. See also letter of 27/Sept 1843"—
Rcd 14 Aug. 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER ANDERSON TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the U.S. Atty. for W. Florida PENSACOLA Aug 1* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In compliance with instructions contained in your letter of the 15" March last” I have after due notice by public advertizement, received proposals for the rent of the lots belonging to the United States in this city.
1. Charles C. Keyser a merchant of wealth & respectability proposes to give Two hundred dollars for one year for the house & lot situated at the corner of Palafax & Government Streets and to keep the house &
fences in repair for that period—the rent to to be paid annually or quarterly as may be agreed upon. I think it expedient to accept this offer—M Keyser having occupied it for many years (upon what terms or by whose permission I do not know) has had no competition in bidding for the lot—I think too that it is a fair rent—the house &
fences are old & much out of repair.
2. Parts of the lots C & D, which are contiguous have been enclosed & long cultivated as a garden by Antoine Collins—for the portion so enclosed the best offer made is that of Charles Lavallé, who proposes to pay ten dollars annually for five years. Mr Collins without making any bid, says that he is willing to pay at the rate of the highest & claims a preference on the ground of having put up the fence, which has encreased its value. What equitable claim he can have on this ground after having cultivated the lot for many years as a garden, free of rent it is not easy to perceive.

As there are a number of bidders for this lot, I would advise that if rented at all it be rented to the highest bidder at public outcry—
3. The unenclosed portion of these same lots has been long occupied by Hanson Kelly the Post Master of this city & he has erected on them an Ice House & recently a horse grist mill—Knowing there would be no competition with him in bidding for this lot, he has made no specific offer, but proposes to pay whatever annual rent may be assessed by two disinterested persons—
This I think is a fair proposition
4 & 5. For the other two lots there has been no offer. If it be desirable to rent them, I would advise that they be offered to the highest bidder at auction— Very respectfully Your ob" Servant WALKER ANDERSON U.S. Atty for W. Fl:
HON: C B PENROSE Sol" of the Tr:
[Endorsed] W. Anderson U.S. Atty for W Flor: 1843 August 1"
Report of bids for city lots in Pensacola belonging to the U. States Ans" Sept 23° 1843 * F.B. See also letter to Mr Anderson Jan' 30.
1844.” W. Florida, Pensacola, August 1, 1843. Walker Anderson US Atty in compliance with instructions cont" in Solicitors letter of
15 March last, after due notice by public advertisement has received proposals for the rent of the lots in Pensacola—describes the lots and names the party proposing for each lot. &c. &c. THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets to SG, Ix]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE August 2" 1843</place-time>
V. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 14" Ult” stating that you have extended the time of completion of M A. M. Randolph's contract, until the 1* of Dec next, on the authority of my letter to you of the 17" June last, & requesting to be informed whether the $1000 which you propose to advance to him on account of the Surveying already returned to your Office under his contract, may be regularly charged in your next quarterly account, or Must stand suspended until the completion of his contract; also stating that M* Whitner has returned from the field & reports, that after surveying about 250 miles, he finds but little good land in his District which will pay for the cost of surveying, and that this from your own

knowledge of the country & a close examination of his work, taken in connection with the certificate of Col: Washington, (Copy enclosed with your letter) you are inclined to credit, & recommend that the remainder of his contract be rescinded.
In reply I have to state, that from all past experience it would be exceedingly impolitick and detrimental to the interests of the United States, to relax the rule which requires that the Deputies shall leave no unfinished surveys in the districts covered by their respective Contracts, particularly in those districts where a part of the Surveying lies in low lands, since the deputies if permitted to do so, would naturally follow the dictates of their own interest, & select the part most easily surveyed, leaving the difficult surveying (which often includes the best lands) to be completed at some future time at greatly augmented prices. Besides it is not clear whether the Department has any discretionary power whatever over the matter, after a written contract has been entered into. The cost of the field work at $4 a mile, being little more than one cent per Acre, it can hardly be supposed, that any land can be found which would not if set up at auction bring the cost of Surveying.—I must therefore request, that you will insist on M Whitner's fulfilling his contract by surveying and returning all the land enbraced in his district punctually within the period to which you will extend the time allowed for the completion thereof, as heretofore authorized in my letter to you of the 17* June last, for the relief of M" Whitner on your representations made to this Office.
In reference to any payments to M Randolph I have to inform you, that advances to deputies are not recognized by the Department
(See Circular of this Office to the Surveyors General of the 5" of August 1840, one of which was addressed to your predecessor, in which advances are forbidden,”) you will therefore make out, a regular account of particulars of the part of M Randolphs surveying examined
& approved by you, and for which you design paying, under my instructions of the 17" June last, & having taken the receipt thereon for the amount, you will transmit the same to this Office, & charge it in your quarterly surveying accounts. This payment as well as all others for surveying, you will hereafter enter on a tabular statement
(see form below)” at the foot of the township plats which you shall return to this Office.*
I am Very respy Your Ob" St THO. H. BLAKE Com.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE August 2" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER OF THE LAND OFFICE Newnansville Florida.
SIR: This Office has reason to Apprehend from information that has reached it, that a Permit or Permits have been granted under the Armed Occupation Act to Settle on Keys or Islands on the Florida Coast—Such Keys or Islands, pursuant to advice received from the War Department, are regarded by this Office as reserved lands and consequently not liable to be taken under the Armed Occupation Act of the 4* August 1842.”
If you have issued any such permits, you will forthwith report the particular Cases to this Office, and will immediately inform those interested that Said Permits are held to be invalid "
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON August 2, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to request in behalf Mess" Palmer and Ferris of Florida, a settlement for a cargo of Live oak timber cut by them thder during the last year upon the S" Johns River and Trout Creek, and which was seized and shipped by Mr H. L. Thistle, the agent of the Department in the month of November, last. The said timber has been landed at the Navy Yard at Portsmouth Virg", and is in the possession and use of the Government. This timber was all eut upen procured from the lands of private individuals from whom it was purchased by said Palmer and Ferris before it was cut. It seems that the Agent of the Government professing to entertain doubts as te whether it had been cut upon public or private land, seized upon it, and agreed that he would ship it to Norfolk, on account of the Government, paying the frieght and accustomed charges, and “that after its reception at the U.S. Navy Yard if he the said Thistle should prove to the satisfaction of the proper authorities that any part or portion of said timber was cut on the public domain said part or portion of said timber should be paid for to the U. States by the said Palmer & Ferris and be deducted from the gross amount of the timber, and that the residue (if any)

should be placed to the credit of the aforesaid P. & F., and that they should be paid for it accordingly.”
Mr Palmer (one of the firm) is now in the City for the purpose of attending to this business, and I have to request your early action upon the subject.
I have the honor to be Your ob" Servt.
D. LEVY
HON. DAVID HENSHAW Sec of the Navy
[Addressed] Hon. D H. Henshaw Sec of the Navy Washington City
[Endorsed] Levy Aug 2 1843 Wait for Mr Thistles report—Say so to Mr Levy Ans" 28"—Respectfully referred to B of construction Navy Dept Augt. 4th Ans" Aug 11.” This letter is respectfully returned to the Secy. of the Navy, with the accompanying papers containing a history of the case, and his instructions requested.
B. of Con & Equipt. 4 Augt. 1843 The Dept declines acting upon this matter until the case shall be adjudicated by the proper tribunal.
</docbody>
<dochead>L  Augt. 2 D Levy THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>August 4, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 20" Ult”,” acknowledging the receipt of my letter to you of the
7" Ult” on the subject of the missing field marks in the old surveys, & enclosing the copy of a letter from M T. N. Weightman, one of your Deputies, in which he states, that after careful search for miles around he was unable to find any marks of the old surveys to guide him in closing his lines, and that if ever ran they have been effectually obliterated by the Indians, Storm, or time, which you state is fully corroborated by Mr Prevost and other Deputies whose duty it was to find the old marks & corners.
It is also stated by Mr Weightman, that the Settlers under the Armed occupation Act are unable to find any marks, & have consequently been compelled to take up their land as if the Country had never been surveyed.

In reply I have to request that you will give your earliest attention to this matter, which you will make a special subject in your next annual report, with which you will submit all the important facts in your possession, or which you may collect, & an estimate for a special appropriation to pay for the surveying necessary to renew the marks, in order that the work may be commenced and prosecuted with as little delay as possible, after the means shall have been provided by Congress, and thus prevent the difficulties & embarrassments to which the purchasers & settlers will otherwise be subjected.
From the fact that your Deputies have not been interrupted by the Indians this year, it is inferred, that there will be no longer any difficulty from that cause, which has it appears, until lately, prevented Surveying operations in your district, & that there will be no danger of the marks being obliterated if now re-established & renewed.
I avail myself of this occasion to impress upon you the importance
& necessity of supervising the work of your Deputies, before paying for the same & returning it to this Office, so as to ensure the faithful marking of the corners on the field. If there is reason to believe that this part of the work has been slighted, payment should be withheld, until proper evidence is produced to remove the doubt."
I am Sir Very respy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. SIMMONS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Land Office. at STAUGUSTINE E.F. August 4" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy.
SIR, My situation in the Land Office here, and a previous residence in the Territory from the period of its cession to the United States, having afforded me an opportunity of becoming acquainted with its Naval resources—or with those productions of its soil, which if preserved and husbanded will render it the future nursery of our military marine—I venture, with the view of promoting this important object, to lay before you a few suggestions on the subject.
At the period of the cession, the Live-oak, Cedar, Cypress, yellow pine, Mulberry, and other valuable species of naval timber that still abound in the interior—were to be found in equal quantity along the streams and sea coast of the Territory; where they were easily accessable, and doubly valuable therefore, on that account. On the transfer however of the country to the United States, by Spain—numerous

bands of Live-oak cutters, sent in by Ship-builders and speculators at the North, commenced a system of depredation on, and pillage of these materials, which has ever since continued, and has not even yet ceased. These persons most commonly commenced their operations ostensably on private grants, which served as mere screens for the depredations committed on the public lands, from which they obtained the great bulk of their materials—their proceedings being further favored by the wild and unsettled state of the Country.
Their depredations however, at length attracted the attention of the Government, and a Live-oak Agent was appointed—who though an active and efficient officer, held other appointments, which interfered with his new duties. while the confused state of the land titles and numerous Spanish grants spread over the country, often rendered it difficult for him to act understandingly; or to avoid collision with the claimants and settlers of the tracts thus imperfectly seperated from the public domain. The office becoming vacant by the death of this gentleman, another appointment was made of a person who did not long hold the situation. This gentleman was succeeded by another, who proved himself wholly incompetent to his duties, and otherwise totally neglected the public interest confided to his charge.
The office was finally suppressed!!” and so remained, until it was renewed through the exertions of our late Delegate Mr Downing;
when it was filled by the appointment ef Majer Cornelius Taylor,”
a resident of the Territory. This gentleman exerted himself with great energy in the discharge of his functions, but being personally unpopular, and charged with duties that brought him into frequent collision with the claimants to private lands, and the settlers of the country, as well as the Live-oak cutters—he was enabled to effect but little, when a change of administration taking place—he was removed from office.
The present Agent, Capt Thistle is a gentleman of great energy, hardihood, and Zeal; and would form an excellent executive officer, under a more extensive organization; or directed by some superior placed at the head of a Department and resident in the Territory.
It is the purpose of this communication to suggest the establishment of such a Department for the more effectual preservation of the valuable naval materials existing in the country—which are daily undergoing waste, and exposed to continued and open depredation.
The organization and details of such a Department, might with advantage be drawn from models to be found abroad; there being

both in England and France, as is no doubt well known to a gentleman of your extensive imformation; complete and seperate Bureaus, charged with the care and preservation of the public forests, and other materials connected with the interests of the national marine. In France, the head of this Department is styled “Commissioner of the Forests”—and is I believe, appointed by, and under the superintendance of “the Minister of the Interior.” I should however state, that I have no opportunity here, of obtaining correct information on this subject; or as to the actual arrangments and details of the system adopted there.
In England also, there is a regularly organized system for the preservation and economical management of the National Forests; which are cut and used on a carefully devised plan, by which a regrowth of the timber is promoted and secured, and plantations of young trees carried on and annually added to the original stock. These trees, even while growing are bent and moulded into the different forms required for use, by a process, the details of which may no doubt be obtained by proper enquiry into the subject. There are still large bodies of Live-oak existing near to navigation, both on the St Johns, and on the eastern and western coasts of the Territory. On Mr Bulows plantation, situated on the head waters of the Tomoka River, which connects with Musquito Bay; there are more than two thousand acres of the finest Live-oak yet standing—and large bodies of this timber are still existing around the head of “Spruce Creek—”
of Hillsboro River, and Indian River Inlet.* Along the upper waters of the St John's, and in the neighbourhood of Tampa and Vaccasasa Bays—large hammocks of oak, cypress, and other valuable naval woods, are still to be found, and might be preserved by the establishment of such a Department as I have suggested, with some directing officer placed at its head, and resident in the Territory; and empowered to appoint and employ additional number of Agents, as well as to cause topographical surveys to be made of the hammocks or lots of Live-oak scattered over the Territory—with a view to their reservation from sale and from settlement.
East Florida might thus be made to form one of the most valuable and magnificient Naval nurseries ever possessed by any Country;
and an inexaustible source of National Strength & power. Large appropriations are made at every session of congress, for dry docks, depots, &c.; which should be regarded as the mere appendices of such a Nursery—on which this expenditure would be much

more worthily and wisely bestowed than on these comparatively inferior objects. The sum now annually paid to Contractors, by whom the Government is always more or less defrauded—would alone serve to defray the expenses of the establishment here recommended—or to pay the salaries of the additional officers and agents who would be required for carrying its objects into effect. I have more than once urged Capt: Thistle to bring this subject fully before the Department—but know not whether he has done so; and hence have been induced to do so myself, in the foregoing imperfect manner—
being well assured that to a gentleman of your intelligence and public zeal but a few leading hints will be required to draw your attention to the subject.
Hoping that this communication will not be considered as obtrusive or officious; 4 aha but will be received as it is intended—I venture to request that you will do me the honor of acknowledging its safe reception.
I have, Sir, the honor to be, Your obed’t Servt:
W H SIMMONS. Register.
[Endorsed] Acknowledge receipt of this letter—the department has this matter under consideration & when it comes to act due consideration will be paid to your suggestions. answered 18th Augt." S 149
Augt. 15. call" Simmons Aug 4 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Exec. Letter Book, 4]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT August 9, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: JOHN NELSON Attorney General SIR: I respectfully request your opinion, whether the settlers on the public lands in East Florida under the “Act to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida” are entitled immediately by the simple act of settlement to cut and sell at their discretion the live oak or other timber on the whole quarter section and if not, what conditions and stipulations should be fulfilled by them, before they are entitled so to cut and sell the timber on the quarter section, on which they have settled."
I am, respctfully, Your Obt: Servi:
DAVID HENSHAW

<dochead>CORNELIUS TAYLOR TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
WASHINGTON CITY Aug' 9" '43
TO THE HONL. DAVID HENSHAw Secretary of the Navy—
SIR. As the agent of John C. Houston & John Simpson to receive the payment for their Live-oak timber, cut by John Almand under a contract with the U.S. for certain Ship timber, I beg leave to state that said timber was cut at Lake Munroe upon the Lands granted to Messrs. Houston & Simpson, under the Act of Augt. 4*1842 “providing for the armed occupation &c of East Florida”—The timber in question, to my certain knowledge, was cut upon their lands, which were regularly surveyed & settled by them—These men with others, settled the country under peculiar circumstances, the went into it under the invitation & solicitation of Genl. Worth, when it was in a state of Warfare, & great inducements were held out to them by that Officer; they were promised arms, munitions & Rations until they should become able to defend & support themselves, these conditions were complied with but for a short space of time, a month had hardly elapsed before the Govmt. withdrew the Rations granted to them, & made the withdrawal in a season of the year when it was impossible for them to make a crop to support themselves and families; the country being in a state of Warfare it was impossible for them to clear Lands with any safety, consequently they were dependent upon the Charity of individuals who were in easy circumstances for their Support.—
This however lasted but for a short space of time, their industry &
hardihood enabled them last fall to clear their lands & erect buildings, & a promising crop now bids fair to recompense them for their toil &
hardships—In clearing these lands there were small Hammocks of Live Oak, which hammock lands, were the only ones fit for cultivation, consequently must be cleared.—Early in last fall Messrs Almand &
Hopkins (live oak contractors) commenced operations in this Section of the country, the timber of these settlers being convenient to navigation was purchased by this firm, & they proceeded to cut & work it up for their contract to the U.S.—When the first cargo was cut & ready for shipping, Mr Thistle the Agent for the Govmt. made some difficulty & endeavoured to prevent the timber being shipped to its proper destination, application was however made to the Secretary of the Navy for a permit to have it sent to the Norfolk Navy Yard, & he acceded to this proposition under certain restrictions (which can be referred to in a letter from the Depmt. to Mr. Bryant of Florida on the

Subject), before the timber was shipped a bond was given, which is also in the Depmt.
I would here state that under these restrictions two cargoes have been shipped, & payed for by the Depmt. without any difficulty, & no difficulty would have ensued in this case but for a dispute between Mr Boushell (the agent of Almand & Hopkins), & Mr Thistle the Govmt. Agent, & in consequence of this dispute the timber was seized.—In making the seizure it seems that the Govmt. Agent labored under some erroneous impressions, he inferred that Mr Boushell made a statement that he had taken advantage of the indulgence granted by the Secretary of the Navy, & had cut timber wherever he could find it—these impressions appear to have been wrong, as the persons who were present at the conversation between Messrs Boushell & Thistle have made affidavit that Boushell made no statement of the kind & that his conversation could in no manner or form be construed as an asserton of Boushell to that effect, —Their affidavits I believe are in your Department, as they have been placed in the hands of Mr. Bryant, the Attorney of Messrs Almand & Hopkins, to be laid before you—
I would further state that I am certain that Mr. Thistle has not been at Lake Munroe since this timber was cut, consequently knows nothing in regard to the land where it was cut, his seizure is predicated upon mere Supposition, & he can adduce no proof to shew that these individuals have trespassed on the public domain.—
In making these statements I would remark to the Depmt. that I
am conversant with all the transactions in this Settlement since it has been located, it was made under my superintendence & I have been constantly there & devoted my time & means to the interest of its inhabitants, they are honest & industrious men, & have toiled hard to gain their livelihood, & I trust that you will not after due investigation withhold from them the payment for their timber, which is justly due to them—The amount is small to the Depmt. but to them is of material consequence as their means are small, & the trifleing pittance which is due to them would enable them to procure some of the Comforts of life which they unquestionably stand in need of I would respectfully request your decission in this case as soon as practicable, as I am desirous to leave here for the North.
Very Respy. I remain Sir Yr Obedt. Servant C. TAYLOR
[Addressed] Honl. David Henshaw Secretary of the Navy. Washington DC
[Endorsed] Taylor Aug 9–T 48 Aug 10 Call

</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON D.C. Aug 9" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR—As a reference will be made to the Attorney General for decision as to right on the part of Settlers (under the Law passed on the 4” of August 1842 provided for the armed occupancy and settlement of Florida) to cut and sell timber from the lands so occupied by them, should it be decided in their favor, there will be millions of dollars worth of valuable ship timber cut and carried away, for at the least calculation two hundred of these settlers under the above named act, have taken out their “permits” on land that was covered with Live oak for the sole object of the timber, without the least idea of becoming settlers I would beg to be permitted to enclose a printed notice" containing my views upon the subject of the rights of the settler which is respectfully submitted for your consideration "–
I am with due respect Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for preservation of Live oak and other timber on Public Land in East Florida DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of U.S. Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle Aug" 9–Encloses printed notice to settlers under armed occupation T 54 Aug 11 Call HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON D C. Aug 10" 1843</place-time>
SIR Concerning the seizure of Live oak made by me on the 23"
of Sept 1842. which was cut by Palmer & Ferris. You will perceive by my letter to the Secretary of the Navy of Dec 6, 1842,” that it will be necessary to have it undergo an investigation before the proper tribunal in East Florida—I will here enclose a copy of the same *—
I would likewise suggest in relation to the oak laying upon the waters of “Mosquito” and also that laying in the swamps which has been cut and hewed by Palmer & Ferris amounting in all, as near as I can judge to, from 20 to 30,000 cubic feet, that being assured that one half of it or probably more has been cut upon the Public Land I

deemed it requisite to request the revenue cutter to visit that place as often as twice per month. And to make a seizure of any vessel with its cargo, that should attempt to take away the same or any part of it—I have left the same instructions with the agent whom I left to transact business during my absence—
I should be perfectly satisfied on behalf of Government to permit Palmer & Ferris to export to the Navy Yard at Gosport, or such other as should be named by the Department, all such timber as they may have cut in that Section, on Public as well as private land, which timber is all mixed together (such portion as has been hauled) providing they would give sufficient bonds to satisfy the Government, when it shall be ascertained what number of cubic feet has been cut on Public Land, so that the same snall be forfeited to the General Govt. and themselves stand liable to prosecution under the act made and provided for the protection of ship timber—All of which is respectfully submitted for Your advice With respect I am Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for preservation of Live Oak and other timber upon Public Land in East Florida—
The last cargo that was seized with the Brig Nimrod, was forfeited to the United. by the decision of the court of Admiralty—
DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of U.S. Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle Aug 10 About timber cut &c by Palmer & Ferris—
may ship it, if they give bond. T 52 Aug 11 Call THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN General Letter Bk. 32]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT August 11" 1843.</place-time>
HON: DAVID LEVY Washington.—
SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 2" inst,” requesting, on behalf of Mess" Palmer & Ferris, Contractors, a settlement for a Cargo of live Oak timber cut in Florida, and seized by the U. S. Agent on the plea of its having been taken from public lands. The Department declines acting in this matter, until the case shall have been adjudicated by the proper tribunal.”
I am very respectfully Your Obdt: Servt:
DAVID HENSHAW.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Atty. Gen. Opinions, Bk. F]</source>
<place-time>ATTORNEY GENERAL's OFFICE. 11." August 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have had the honor to receive your communication of the
9" Inst,” requesting my opinion—“Whether the Settlers on the public lands in East Florida under the Act, to provide for the armed occupation and settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida, are entitled immediately, by the simple act of settlement to cut and sell at their discretion the live oak and other timber, on the whole quarter section; and if not, what conditions and stipulations must be fulfilled by them, before they are entitled so to cut and sell the timber on the quarter section on which they have settled.”
The Act in question entitles any person, “being the head of a family or single man over eighteen years of age, able to bear arms,” who has made or shall within one year after the passage of the Act, make an actual settlement, within the part of Florida therein designated, to one quarter section of land, upon certain conditions thereby prescribed.
These conditions are;—that he shall obtain a permit from the Register of the Land Office in the district in which he proposes to settle, describing the place where the settlement is intended to be made; that he shall reside in said Territory five consecutive years;
that he shall erect on his settlement a house fit for the habitation of man, and shall clear enclose and cultivate at least five acres of said land and reside thereon, for the space of four years next following the first year after the date of his permit, if he shall so long live; that he shall within one year after the survey of said lands, and the opening of the proper office, prove before such tribunal, and in such manner and form as the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the approval of the President, shall prescribe, the fact that the settlement has been commenced, and the quarter section upon which it is located;
and shall within six months after the expiration of five years from the date of his permit, prove in like manner, the fact of continued residence and cultivation.
Upon his compliance with these conditions, the settler will be entitled to a patent for the quarter section, upon which his settlement shall have been made, and the act explicitly declares, that the title thereto shall not vest before, and avoids all sales, gifts divises agreements bonds or powers to sell, transfers or liens whatsoever, of such land or any portion thereof, made of any time before such patent shall have issued.

It is therefore clear, except in the contingency provided for in the
5* Section of the Act, that the title can in no case vest in any settler till five years shall have elapsed; and only then, upon shewing a compliance with the condition of previous continued residence and cultivation.
The enquiry now is, what are the rights of the settler during this probation of five years, before his claim to the land has matured, so as to entitle him to a patent?
My opinion is, that during that period he has no right to cut or sell any timber, except for the purpose of clearing, cultivating enclosing and occupying the land so settled. The terms of the grant make it incumbent on him to improve at least five acres. He has the power to clear cultivate and enclose the whole. But that power must be exerted with the bona fide view to a settlement. The law will not permit him under the pretext of settling, to pillage the public domain, and having done so, by abandoning it, to defeat the leading purposes of the enactment. He is in the condition of a purchaser upon terms to be complied with, who until compliance, will be restrained from acts permanently affecting the value of the Estate. The destruction of the timber, except for the purposes of the occupation will be waste, which a Court of Chancery upon a proper application will enjoin.”
I have the honor to be, Very respectfully, Sir Your obedient Servant JN° NELSON.
HON: DAVID HENSHAW. Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsed] Florida: Live Oak: Settlers under the armed occupation & settlement Act are not entitled to cut live oak & other timber except for the purpose of clearing until they comply with all the conditions of the law.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS UNDER THE ARMED OCCUPA-
</docbody>
<dochead>TION ACT</dochead>
<source>[LC:St. Augustine, Fla. Herald, Aug. 14, 1843]</source>
<place-time>[August 14, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>Notice to Applicants under the Florida Armed Occupation Act of the
4th August, 1842,” to whom PERMITS have been granted on SUR-
VEYED Lands.
NOTICE is hereby given to the class of Applicants above mentioned who are designated in the enclosed List, that the period of “ONE

YEAR” allowed by the said Act for proving the fact that the “Settlement has been commenced, and the particular Quarter Section upon which it is located” will expire on the 12th day of December, 1843, that being one year from the day on which the Register and Receiver of this Office were prepared to act under the Law.
They are therefore hereby requested to file with the Register and Recelver at Newnansville, Flarida, on or before the said date, satisfactory proof pursuant to the requirements of law above mentioned.
Such proof should be the Applicants “own affidavit corroborated by the testimony of two or more disinterested and competent witnesses,” Which proof should give all the particulars as to the settlement—date of its commencement—and description of the particular Quarter Section on which it is made.
Witness the proof required in the foregoing is filed on or before the date specified, the Applicants will forfeit all right, titile, and claim to land under their Permits.
#. of Date of Permit. Name of Applicant. Quarter Section. Township. Range.
ernt

# # Date of Permit. Name of Applicant. Quarter Section. Township. Range.
erm

# of |Date of Permit. Name of Applicant. Quarter Section. Township. Range.
erm

# Dale of Permit. Name of Applicant. Quarter Section. Township. Range.

No. o, . Date of Permit. Name of Applicant. Quarter Section. Township. Range.
Permit
831 | 26th july William Johns, sen. South West 30 | twelve s twenty one e
833 27th july Charles Roach, North West 17 | thirteen s twenty one e
834 || 27th july Augustus E Moyes, North East 19 | twelve s twenty one e
835 | 27th july Solomon Godwin, South East 25 | twelve s twenty one e
836 || 27th july Willis Chamberlain, South West 24 | ten s twenty two e
837 || 27th july Henry Lancaster, North East 1 | eleven s fifteen e
838 27th july Thomas Weeks, North East 33 | ten s sixteen e
841 27th july Joshua Miller, South East 20 ! twelve s twenty e
842 27th july Benjamin Mills, North East 27 | twelve s twenty e
846 - 27th july William P Brooker, North East 32 | ten s twenty three e
855 || 28th july John Townsend, South West 10 | twelve s fifteen e
857 || 28th july Godliff Sherouse, North East 17 | thirteen s twenty e
860 | 28th july James S Harvey, North West 27 | twelve s twenty two e
861 || 28th july John S. Parrish, North West 25 | ten s fifteen e
863 || 29th july Lewis Daniels, South East 1 | twelve s twenty three e
864 || 29th july Samuel Hudson, South West 6 twelve s twenty three e
867 || 29th july John Severy, South West 3 | thirteen s twenty e
869 || 29th july James T Berill, North West 12 | thirteen s nineteen e
872 | 29th july William D. Branch, North West 7 I thirteen s twehty one e
873 || 29th july Simcon Harvey, North East 28 twelve s twenty two
874 29th july John C. Mink, North East 27 twelve s twenty two e
875 || 31st july Stephen Dampeer, E 34 S. W. 36 | ten s twenty two e
886 || 31st july John Cury, South West 25 | twelve s nineteen e
887 || 31st july Stephen Fagan, South West 29 thirteen s twenty e
888 || 31st july James McNabb, North East 10 | ten s twenty three e JOHN PARSONS, Receiver. SAMUEL RUSSELL, Register. NOTE.—The particulars as to the Settlements should be the time when cultivation was Commenced the kind of Crop cultivated—
number of Acres in Cultivation—the kind of tenement Erected—
number of persons composing the family—discriminating between Adults and Children—males and females—white and colored.
August 14.
Notice to applicants under the Florida Armed Occupation act of the
4th August 1842, to whom PERMITS, were granted for settlement on Lands which were NOT SURVEYED at the dates of such Permits.
NOTICE is hereby given to the class of Applicants above mentioned that the Plats of the following described Townships have been duly certiefid and returned by the Surveyor General to the District Land Office at NEWNANSVILLE, E. F., and that the period of “ONE
YEAR” allowed by the said Act for proving the “fact that thesettlement has been commenced, and the particular quarter section upon which it is located,” will expire at the dates opposite the Townships described in the annexed List. Those applicants, therefore, whose settlements are within any of those Townships, are requested to file with the

Register and Receiver, at NEWNANSVILL, Florida, on or before the said dates, satisfactory proof pursuant to the requirement of law above mentioned.
SUCH proof should be the Applicant's own affidavit, coroborated by the testimony of two or more disinterested competent witnesses;
which proof should state all the particulars as to the settlement, and give the designation of the particular quarter section on which it is made.
UNLESS the proof required in the foregoing is filed on or before the dates specified, the Applicants will forfeit all right, title, and claim to Land under their Permit.
Date on or before which the Proof Township. Range of Settlement must be field, and the particular Quarter Section described.
Twelve Thirteen June 29th, 1844.
Thirteen Thirteen June 29th, 1844.
Fourteen Thirteen June 29th, 1844.
Fifteen Thirteen June 29th, 1844.
Twelve Fourteen June 29th, 1844.
Thirteen Fourteen June 29th, 1844.
Thirteen Fifteen June 29th, 1844.
JOHN PARSONS, Receiver. SAM'L. RUSSELL, Register.
NOTE.—The particulars as to the settlement should be:—the time when cultivation was commenced—the kind of crop cultivated—
number of acres in cultivation—the kind of tenement erected—
number of persons composing the family; discriminating between adults and children, males and females, whites and colored.
Aug. 14
</docbody>
<dochead>MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF ST. AUGUSTINE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Misc. Lets. on Rev. Marine:LS]</source>
<place-time>ST. AUGUSTINE E.F. August 14" 1843</place-time>
<docbody>TO/ THE HONORABLE JOHN C. SPENCER, Secretary of the Treasury Washington City SIR, The Undersigned, the Mayor and Council of St Augustine—
beg leave to represent to you, that both during the late Indian War, and up to the present moment; the coast of this Territory has been without any Maratime protection—being a bare and exposed frontier, on which either smuggling, piracy, or the abduction of slaves, may be

carried on with impunity—and as we have reason to believe, have been perpetrated, both by the Indians and evil disposed white persons in connection with them.
The Undersigned are induced to address you on the subject, at this particular time, in consequence of certain recent occurrances, which tend to shew, not only that the slave property of the inhabitants of the Territory, is threatened with danger; but also the peaceful relations of the United States with a Power whose possessions are in our immediate neighbourhood, afford her Agents and Emissaries opportunities of tampering with our slaves and abducting them from their owners—which, embarked as she is in the cause of Abolition, there can be no doubt of her willingness to avail herself of -
and as is otherwise shewn by the following facts.
The recent occurrances to which we allude, are, first the absconding some six weeks ago of seven slaves from Key West, who seized a boat in the harbour, and though closely pursued, succeeded in making their escape to the Bahama Islands; where they have ever since been sheltered and have no doubt been made free. Subsequent to this, seven more negroes two of them employed as sailors on board the Schooner Water M–a vessel in the Service of the United States, made their escape in the Pilot Boat of the Harbour, having first possessed themselves of seven stand of Muskets which formed a part of the armament of the above vessel. There is little doubt that they have made, as the first party of fugitives did—for the Bahama Islands—having taken with them a compass, and a sufficient quantity of provisions to last them in a run to that place.
It must be seen that such occurrances, while they tend daily to lessen the security, and therefore the value of a species of property on which the prosperity of the Territory mainly depends—there are other circumstances connected with this last occurrance, which afford good ground for believing that there exists in some quarter, and probably in the Bahama Islands, a regularly organized system for the abduction of our slaves—or for aiding and abetting them in escaping from their owners. The circumstances that lead to this belief, are—that a few days after the occurrance above mentioned—
a suspicious sail appeared on the coast and continued for several days to lurk on and off the harbour of this place; so that her movements excited general attention. On being boarded by the Pilots, she was found to have rather a numerous crew on board—but appeared to be otherwise unusually light, or only in ballast. The Captain however on being questioned as to his destination stated, that he was in search of a market for his cargo—which he represented to be of salt—the vessel itself being as he said from Rum Key, one of the Bahama

Islands. He nevertheless on being left by the Pilots immediately put about, and steered in the wake of the Water M-the vessel from which a portion of the negroes escaped, and which had just previously left the Port for Key West.
Since the absconding of the negroes, the slave of a gentleman to whom one of the fugitives belonged—had stated to his master, that the latter, a few nights before he absconded, observed to some of his comrades, that a British vessel would soon be off the Port; and that there would then be a good opportunity for those who wished it, to obtain their freedom. Under these circumstances the undersigned earnestly petition that a proper Maratime force may be stationed on this coast for its protection; and that at least two Cutters be ordered to ply regularly between this harbour and Key West, so as to form a check on our slaves along the Sea board; and on those whom it is believed keep up a communication with them, in order to withdraw them from their owners; and who may incite them to still more pernicious acts against the latter.”
We have the honor to be, Sir, Very Respectfully, Your obed’t Servis.
Abrah" Dupont Mayor of the City of St Augustine Pedro Benet Manuel Crespo Eom' J. Midicis Mathew Solana Aldermen
[L.S.] In witness whereof the Corporation Seal is affixed. P. B.
DUMAS Clerk of the Council
[Endorsed] F D160 Augt 26 Cap Fraser DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets. ALS:]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTONAugt 15, 1843</place-time>
SIR In respect to the amount due to Mess. Palmer and Ferris for the cargo of Live oak rec" p. brig Nimrod in December last at the Navy Yard at Gosport, I have the honor to say that it would be subjecting Mess" P. & F. to a most onerous and, under the circumstances, I am perfectly convinced, unjust necessity to resort to judicial proceedings at Norfolk. The express stipulation upon which the cargo was allowed to be shipped, was that unless it was shown to the Secretary of the Navy that the timber was cut upon public
28Answered post, p. 740.

land it should be paid for. That was the contract made by the agent of the Dep', and submitted to by Mess" P & F, because they had a brig under charter in the very act of loading, and any delay w” have exposed them to expence of demurrage. If the authority of the agent is recognized, the stipulation of a decision by the Secretary, without expence to P & F, is binding; if not, the Messrs then P & F should be imm” restored to the possession of their property. They have paid to the owners of the land for the timber, as they are ready to prove to you, and there is not the remotest ground upon which any pretence can be made that it was not bona fide taken from private lands in the possession of the persons from whom they purchased. The papers I handed you a few days since will show this, and I would of course be gratified if the business could be settled at once while Mr. P. is here.
Mess" P & F are willing and desirous to satisfy the Dept. fully upon the subject, but if you are unwilling to take up the matter for imm" decision here, I w” respectfully recommend the following course, with which I believe they will be perfectly content. to wit that the U.S. Dist. Atty for the East. Dist. of Flo. be directed to satisfy himself whether the timber was cut upon public or private land, and make report to you. If he reports that the land upon which it was cut, was private property, the cargo to be paid for to P & F, without further delay.
I have the honor to be Yr Ob" St D. LEVY
HON DAVID HENSHAW Secy of the Navy.
[Addressed] Hon David Henshaw Sec of the Navy Washington.
D. Levy
[Endorsed] Levy Aug 15/43 L 46 Aug 16. Call DELEGATE LEVY TO BEVERLEY KENNON
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS 29]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON August 15. 1843</place-time>
SIR. The late annoyances to which is experieńeed by Mess" Palmer
& Ferris have been exposed, and the course pursued by the late Agent of the Dept. for the preservation of timber in Flo. will render it impossible for those gentlemen to prosecute their contracts without such instructions from the government as will ensure the usual liberality. It will be utterly impossible for them to effect a charter of a vessel for the transportation of Live Oak while a forfeiture is threatened as the consequence of a mistake or dispute in regard to the title of the Land from which it has been cut. Mess" P. & F. have and

will always act in good faith. They have now a quantity of timber at their landings ready for shipment to the yards and are desirous to proceed in its delivery, and in the completion of their contracts.
As has been usual heretofore they desire that where there are doubts as to the legality of the title under which they may purchase the timber, or as to the boundaries of the tract, it should still be permitted them to ship the timber, they being responsible to the Government for the same price they had agreed to pay the claimant, in case the dispute of title terminate favorably to the Gov".
It will also be indespensibly necessary for them to be allowed to cut kelson pieces from the public land as well as from private, (paying to the Gov" the usual price for it) as it is difficult to find such pieces as are required.
I am satisfied that the proper course for the Gov" in such matters is a liberal one as well as just, and I do hope that that the very reasonable desire of Mess" P & F. will be acceded to.”
I am Sir Respy Yr Obt St D. LEVY
COM. B. KENNON Bureau of Construction
[Addressed] Com. B. Kennon Chf of B. of Construction Washington D Levy
[Endorsed] Will Com: Warrington inform Capt" Kennon if there has been any rule heretofore on the within subject?–In some instances timber has been ascertained, to have been cut on the publick lands;
and when delivered a deduction of 25 cents per foot has been insisted on for it—No rule has existed, but such was the decision on the case-
In no instance has a contractor, been allowed to cut timber for keels or any thing else LW *
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA: GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE August 21" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: JAMES M. PORTER Secretary of War.
SIR: Herewith I enclose a list marked (A)” of certain Permits that have been issued at St. Augustine Florida under the Florida Armed Occupation Act of the 4” of August 1842 to individuals to settle on certain Islands or Keys on the Florida Coast.

One of these permits is to settle on Boca Chico, the others are all for settlements on Key Largo.
Under a letter from your Department of the 21" September 1842,”
indicating the opinion that “Cedar Keys and other Islands near the coast should be held in reservation,” all the Keys on the Coast of Florida have been regarded by this Office as reserved; and as therefore not subject to the Operation of the Act abovementioned.—As the permits mentioned in the foregoing however have been issued, I deem it proper to ask advice as to whether the two islands mentioned are still reserved, and if not, at what period they were released from reservation.”
With great respect Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner HEZEKIAH L. 
</docbody>
<dochead>THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA: ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON D.C. Aug 21st 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. As Mr Allmand is now here and anxious to enter into some arrangement concerning his business, I have drawn a rough Bond which I submit to You for Your consideration and approval—I do not consider his case so agravated as some others, and would suggest that as much leniency be exercised towards him as would be consistent with the law—After a partial examination of the subject I have been as moderate in the amount of money to be paid per cubic foot as I
could make up my mind to consent to—
The Law of 1831—2"Section” makes no provision for any violation of the same through ignorance, and I am placed in office as an agent to protect the rights of the Government, and consider this a question which requires cool consideration, as I have put a check to the great evil hitherto existing in the way of trespass upon the Public domain, it is important that I should take no steps that may opperate as a barrier—and as all my movements are closely watched by the legal talent of East Florida, a dout arises in my mind whether as agent I
have a right to compromise for Live oak or other ship timber which has been cut since entering upon the duties of the agency for the protection of the same—Pine timber and wood is of a different nature and comes under a different head—

I would request as a favor to have the opinion of the Attorney General on that point.—Mr Allmand is in great haste to depart The form of bond which is herewith presented,” please to have corrected where it may be required as I am in too low a state of health to transact business properly—
I remain with due respect Your Obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for preservation of Live oak and other timber on public land in East Florida—
DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of U.S. Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle Aug 21/43 Encloses rough copy of bond for Allmand. T 67 Aug 22 Call HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA: ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON D.C. Aug 21st 1843</place-time>
SIR I am under the impression that it would be advisable that you should direct the revenue cutter to keep a lookout at Mosquito, as Levy's false representation in behalf of Palmer & Ferris, asking for the release of timber (being ignorant where the first stick of it was cut) availed them nothing. there is no doubt but that they will endeavour to remove the timber which is now hauled and laying at Mosquito, amounting to about Twenty thousand dollars worth-
I can say, Speaking within bounds that one half of it has been cut from the Public Land, therefore the whole Ship & Cargo should be a lawful prize, which is loaded therefrom I remain With due respect Your Obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for the preservation of Live oak
& other timber upon the Public Lands in East Florida DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of U.S. Navy Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Thistle Aug 21—wants a cutter to keep a look out at Mosquito T 63 Aug 21 Call**
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM. H. SIMMONS AND SAMUEL RUSSELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Fla. Armed Occup. Corr., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>Circular GENERAL LAND OFFICE August 22° 1843–</place-time>
<docbody>To the Registers at Newnansville & S*Augustine Florida.
GENTLEMEN, I received today a latter of the 4* Inst from the Register at Newnansville ” advising me, in reply to mine of the 19*

Ult°* that he had issued 947 permits under the Armed occupation Act, and had on hand a surplus of 55 Applications.”
I have also received a letter of the 4" Ins" from the Register at S’ Augustine" stating that he had issued up to that date 336 permits, and that “no applications by persons bringing themselves within the law, or who have made settlements” had “been filed in” that “day, only some few of an irregular character,” which he does not enumerate.—
As no permits have been issued at Tallahassee, the matter stands thus
947 Permits issued at Newnansville—160 acres each— 151.520 acres
336 do do at S*Augustine 53.760 “ Aggregate Acres. 205.280 “
Excess 5.280 acres and a surplus of 55 Applications in the Registers Office at Newnansville.
Thus it will be seen that you have exceeded the quantity authorized by law, notwithstanding the urgent precautionary instructions contained in my circular to you of the 25" March last," and my letter of the 8" May last to the Register at Newnansville," a copy of which I sent to the Register at S*Augustine under that date—
I shall be glad to receive your explanations as to how this excess was suffered to occur in view of my positive and explicit instructions to prevent it—
The Register at Newnansville is required forthwith to notify those representing the “55 Applications” referred to by him that no permits will be issued thereon, the quantity Authorized to be taken up under the law being exhausted—
You will make a final return shewing the permits issued by you up to the 4" Ins" and you are required respectively to report
1" The nett number of Permits issued by you that have been annulled for any specific cause-indicating the No" and particulars in each case—
2" The precise number issued by you respectively exclusive of those annulled.
I request that you will make an immediate report containing this information and on the receipt of it at this Office, & of your final docket for the fraction to the 4" of the present month, you shall be advised as to what Permits must be recalled at your respective Offices

with a view to reduce the number of ourstanding permits so as to cover only the exact quantity allowed by law to be settled.”
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON D.C. Aug 25* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. As many settlers under the “Act of August 4th 1842 for the armed occupancy and settlement of East Florida” have taken out their permits on land in various shapes for the purpose of enclosing as much Live oak timber as possible I would respectfully request to be informed whether the law does not restrict them to a quarter section in a square form *—
I am With due respect Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for the preservation of live oak and other timber upon the Public land in East Florida HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy of the United States.
[Endorsed] Thistle August 25 Asks the limitations of armed occupation law. Navy Dep’ Sept. 6" 1843 Respectfully referred to the Commissioner of the General Land Office Navy Dep’ Sep" 6, 1843
Hon: D. Henshaw Secy Refers letter from H L. Thistle Agent for the preservation of Live Oak Timber in Florida, who enquires whether the settlers under the Armed Occupation Act are not restricted to take a quarter Section in a square form &c R answ" by land office Sept 28*
T  Augt 26 Call HEZEKIAH L. 
</docbody>
<dochead>THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON D.C. Aug 28* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR According to Your request I subjoin a brief statement of money that has been already received, and placed to the credit of the United States. Also the amount involved in suits now pending before the Judicial tribunal of Florida. The amount of Timber placed at the disposal of the Navy Department, free from any restrictions.

and money remaining in the court at St Augustine subject to the order of the Department: Suits which could not be sustained, and money which could not have been received without ascertaining the fact that they had been trespassers, by Surveys, and furthermore incurring all of the expenditures which appear in my account current as necessary to accomplish the object entrusted to me, and to attain for the Government its just dues—I therefore respectfully request that such of my accounts which may not be considered within the authority given me by the Department—may be reimbursed to me from such money and property as has been clearly shown to be the property of the United States before the same is placed to the credit of the Treasury—
The following is the amount as shown in my account which has been placed to the credit of the Government
$ 50. From E B Ives for pine timber cut on Public Land
$100. from J Mont Mullen do do
$175 from A Parsons do do do all of which had necessarily to be ascertained by Survey before the money could be received or even asked for—
$450. or $ 500 now in the court at St Augustine the remaining proceeds of the “Brig Nimrod” which is subject to the order of the Secretary of the Navy—
$6000 the least possible value of the sixty six sticks which was condemned by the same court, and pronounced to be the property of the United States, and already at the Gosport Navy Yard—being about 4000 cubic feet—as will more fully appear by the decision accompanying this statement The Brig and Timber is the property of the United States without doubt, as the limited time for taking an appeal passed without the claimants availing themselves of the opportunity—
The following is a statement of the Suits now pending
$100,000 damages against Palmer & Ferris for Live oak timber cut in the vicinity of Trout creek, Big Hammock, Cypress Pond and various other places which a page would not suffice to mention—
$50,000 damages against Parsons & Blanchard for cutting pine timber, and two indictments against each of these gentlemen found by the Grand Jury
$100,000 damages against Palmer & Ferris for cutting at Mosquito From testimony already in my posession, it is clearly the opinion of Mr Douglass U S Attorney that the Government cannot recover less than $50,000–
The cargo of the Brig Nimrod seized by me in the St Johns river in November last is likewise still pending—None of these points could

be sustained without the expense of surveying and all the expenditures incidental to those cases *—
All of which is respectfully submitted—With due respect I remain Your Obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for the preservation of Live oak and other timber upon Public Land in East Florida–
HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy of the United States.
[Endorsed] Thistle Aug 23: Statement of sums recovered & suits pending T 77 Aug 29 Call VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
Office of the S. General TALLAHASSEE Aug'28" 43
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your communication of the 4* inst.” on the subject of obliterated field marks in East Florida, wherein you request me to give my earliest attention to this matter, & to make it a special subject in my next annual report with which I am to submit all the important facts in my possession or which I may be enabled to collect, & an estimate for a special appropriation to pay for the surveying necessary to renew the marks &c.
I have but very uncertain data upon which to found such an estimate, but in compliance with the above request will endeavor to furnish myself with such information as will enable me to carry out your views as nearly as possible. In the mean time I should be pleased to have the advantage of any suggestion which may present itself to your mind in furtherance of this object.
In another portion of the same communication you say “I avail myself of this occasion to impress upon you the importance & necessity of supervising the work of your Deputies, before payment for the same & returning to this office, so as to ensure the faithful marking of the corners on the field—If there is reason to believe that this part of the work has been sleighted pay ment should be with held until proper evidence is produced to remove the doubt.”
Permit me to assure you Sir, that I have & shall continue to be most careful & vigilant in the investigation of the truth & accuracy of the Surveys which have & shall be made by my Deputies in this Territory—It is never the less possible after all my efforts to prevent or detect fraud & imposition—Advantages may be taken of such a

nature as wholly to elude my utmost scrutiny—My greatest care has been to select only such Agents as were above even the shadow of suspicion. This I regard the surest guarantee of faithfulness in the execution of all contracts which have or shall be entered into with this Department. If, notwithstanding, the high rank & standing of each & all of my present Surveying Corps, actual imposition or wilful neglect shall have been practised by either one of them, I shall look for prompt detection in the rapid settlement of the country & by means of the Keen scrutiny of those who shall purchase the public lands—In such an event it will be recollected that the responsibility of the Surveyor does not cease after the reception of his Field notes &
pay ment for his work. In view of this fact I have endeavoured to take the amplest Security of each individual contractor.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obt. Svt V. Y. CONWAYS" Gen!
THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Comm Gen L.O.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor (28 Aug 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G. In reply to Comr's letter of the 4" inst, relative to the obliterated marks of survey, & to the care necessary to be observed in examining the surveys lately made, before payment. Answd Sep 27. 1843 * Wilson"
Septr 18, 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, PLC Dockets, Fla. 4:LS]</source>
<place-time>Office Of the Surveyor General. TALLAHASSEE August 28* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of 31st Ulto * in answer to my letter of 30" June "last on the subject of a Private claim of M" Joseph Chaires.
Since the receipt of this letter I have used all means within my power to acertain whether any such survey as that returned by Don Andres Burgevin can be identified, in the doing of which, I have applied to the claimants to know if they can identify their land and can
(in conformity with said survey) point out the begining corner, to which they have replied, that they cannot locate it; I have made enquiries with regard to the work generally, as done by the said Burgevin and am credibly informed that it was his custon to make what are styled “Chimney Corner Surveys” which is nothing more than returning a plat & notes without ever having been on the ground; I
will therefore be compelled to delay further action on this matter

until some one of my Deputies shall be sent in that direction, when he shall be instructed to give his attention to the subject.
In relation to the appointment of a Deputy for the exclusive service of surveying private claims, you say—“It would be very proper & indeed it is extremely desirable that a trustworthy & competent person should specially be employed for this purpose, to receive such compensation as may be allow'd by law”. This as I understand it is at the rate of $4 per mile, you have not fully understood my views as I intended they sheuld appear te yet to convey them in my letter of
31st Ulto; I thought that such deputy should receive a such salary adequate te as would conpensate him; or some other mode of payment—
other than $4 per mile, -no deputy of character can be found, who would undertake this work at this rate, -it would require an experienced and competent person & any such an one would refuse to undertake the work—to do one or two miles in one place, then to remove his camp 20 miles or upwards for four or five miles, then to wait for the necessary certificates to guarantee that the survey should be made,—to be idle until such time as the grantee could point out his begining corners and many other hindrances which will present themselves to an experienced Surveyor and prevent his accepting a contract, on which he must inevitably loose money. If a surveyor could be allowed a sufficient compensation, I would dispatch one on this service as early as possible but I cannot procure a Suitable deputy at the price allow’d by law;
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Y” obdt Serv"
V. Y. CONWAY Sr Gen!
THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Comm Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Office of the Surveyor General Tallahassee Aug 28. 1843.
V. Y. Conway Su Gen. Ackg" the rep” of the Comm” letter of the
31" Ult° relative to the subject of the private claim of Joseph Chaires also states that he cannot procure a suitable Dept. Surveyor for the exclusive service of surveying private claims at the compensation allowed by law. (#4 “A” Fla) R Answ" by letter Sep 26 1843 * Wilson Septr 18, 1843 (d)
</docbody>
<dochead>AUGUSTUS W. WALKER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON August 29* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: On the 7" of march " and 20" of april last, * I had the honor of informing your predecessor—the Honorable Abel. P. Upshur—that

on the 3" of said month I had, as Collector of the District of St:
Augustine, caused the brig Nimrod with a cargo of live oak to be seized at New Smyrna, Musquito inlet, Florida, for a violation of the
1" and 2* Sections of the act, entitled: “An act to provide for the punishment of offences committed in cutting, destroying and removing live oak and other timber or trees reserved for naval purposes,” approved March 2" 1831,” and that I had also on the 6" of said month directed suits to be instituted against said brig and cargo; I likewise enclosed a copy of all papers relating to the case.—On the 18" of april the brig and cargo, less 10/76" or ten sticks decreed not to have been cut on lands belonging to the United States, were condemmed by the federal court for the District of East Florida, the brig ordered to be sold, the cargo to be delivered to the live oak agent; the sale of the vessel having taken place, the half of its nett proceeds, after deducting the expenses of the court, was under the 3" Section of said act, and by order of said court, paid over to me on the 6" of June last.
The live oak, Sixty seven sticks, nine having been left at New Smyrna by the brig, has since been delivered and received at the Gosport Navy Yard, Portsmouth, Virginia, 10/76" as the property of the cutters of the timber, Mess" Palmer and Ferris and the balance as the quantity forfeited, which by the Navy Yard measurement gave
534 feet to said Palmer and Ferris and 3525 as said quantity forfeited. I would now therefore, under the third section, already referred to, claim one half of the value of said live oak timber, which I respectfully beg, Sir, you may direct to be paid over to me.—
I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect Your obedient Servant A. W. WALKER Collector To THE HONORABLE DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy Washington D.C.
Send answer to the Carlton House New York
[Endorsed] Walker 29 Augt about seizure of the Nimrod Copy sent to Atty Gen. for Opinion, Sept. 1. ans" Sept. 4 * See Atty Gen's Opinion, Sept 2, filed with Homans W 144 Sept. 1—Call

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF THE EASTERN JUDICIAL DISTRICT</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[September 1, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable Senate & House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled.
We the Subscribers, Citizens of Florida, residing in the Eastern District, do most earnestly & respectfully ask the aid of Congress by an appropriation to open a Road for facilitating the communication between the Sea coast at St Augustine and the interior Counties of Alachua, Hernando and Hillsboro’ and in fact the whole southern portion of the peninsula lately thrown open to settlement by the termination of Indian Hostilities.
Your Memorialist will further represent that the only link required to complete the communication is the distance from Palatka to St Augustine which distance on a Route suitable for a public road would be from 25 to 28 miles Moreover a large & valuable portion of public Lands (say from 20 to 30 thousand acres) have been entirely excluded from Market & must continue so unless the General Government will aid in constructing a Road by means of which settlers can see a certain route over which they can convey their surplus produce to Market.
In a military point of view the advantages of this route are incalculable, both in saving of distance & economy of time, as Palatka or some point in its immediate vicinity must at no distant period become the terminus of a Rail Road across the Peninsula to the Gulf of Mexico and it will be all important to have good roads leading from thence in every direction—
In consequence of the nature of this particular section of the Country, the obstacles to be overcome (consisting of Bay Galls & Cypress Slushes wet & swampy and a large Creek almost impassable at the best of times but in wet seasons is a complete barrier to travel of all kinds) are so great, as to be wholly beyond the ability of the Inhabitants to accomplish unaided by the munificence of the Government.
Your memorialists venture to hope that on a full view of the positive interests of the United States in this Route (2/3 of which is through public Lands) your Honorable Bodies will admit the propriety & expediency of the work and make an appropriation sufficient to effect the proposed object—
And your Memorialists as in duty bound will ever pray.
Sept 1" 1843 TERRITORY OF FLORIDA Fort King Alachua County J. A. Towers M.D. Wm Sykes Wm Donoho T D Whittier Ch" M Conway Henry Y Price

EP Callet John Holden John McGoun J B Blanton Sam W. Jones Robt. Waterston George Lowe William Carter J. H. Dolin His Johon X Costelo Mark David Monroe Tho Coverley George Hand Alex Grant J” A. Grace John M*Kelvey Jno. Smith P. Moody S Gordin James Elis Pete Hale A. J. Lyon Wm Roberts John Scott Jno: G. Reardon Richd M. Ratcliffe John M*Gowean James Gibbons J. B. Barns Tho" Zimmer Wm D. Branch Simeon Monroe Geo. L. Cochran C. C. Tracy John Stephans M. Hindley C Gordin T Tracy J Ellis J Caruthers J Hull P. Clark Simeon Monroe L. B. Branch Wm D Branch
[Endorsed] Florida Pet. for App" to open a road from St. Augustine to the interior Counties. Feb 28. 1844,” ref" to com” on roads &
canals. March 28. 1844 *—Disch" & to lie M Levy.
Section Two of Signers to the Petition PALATKA, E:F. 25" September 1843. St. Johns County Jas. B. Cole P. M.
James Davis William Donoho John Dick Richd H. Barrett Charles H. Bell H. S. Clark Geo: W. Hunter Rich" M Ratcliffe A. W. Bell Luke Johns W" Thigpin Peter Sparkman Wm H. Cohen William Sparkman John Sparkman Wade Sparkman James Finn Patrick Connor Charles W. Brush

S. Glimks Wm Daniels W" McElvey C. Barber Robt. Dardis D. Finn Geo. J Geyer Peter C. Zylstra
[Endorsed] Florida Pet. for an appropriation to open a road from S” Augustine to the interior Counties of said territory Feb 28. 1844,”
ref" to com” on roads & canals. March 28, 44 * Disch" & to lie Roads & Canals M Levy THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>- GENERAL LAND OFFICE September 8* 1843.</place-time>
SIR: I had to day the honor to receive from your Department, a letter of the 25" Ult° from H. L. Thistle,” agent for the preservation of live oak and other timber upon the public land in East Florida.
In that letter, herewith returned, M* Thistle represents that “as many settlers under” the Florida Armed occupation Act of 4 August
1842 “have taken out their permits on lands in various shapes for the purpose of enclosing as much Live Oak timber as possible” he requests “to be informed whether the law does not restrict them to a quarter Section in a square form”—
In reply, I have to state that the law does so restrict them and the Land Officers have been advised accordingly, and from the general instructions dated August 25" 1842 "printed copy herewith," it will be seen (page 4) that the selection under the said act, to the detriment of the U.S. of live oak or red cedar timber is expressly interdicted— -
I beg leave to request that M Thistle may be called on to furnish a list for the action of this office designating the N° of the permits
& names of the settlers represented by him to have taken live oak timber in their settlements *—
With great respect Your Obt Servant THOS H BLAKE Commissioner HoN: DAVID HENSHAw Secy of the Navy
[Endorsed] Land Office—Sep 28 The Armed occupation law restricts to quarter section, in answer to reference of Thistles of Aug 25th C. 182 Sept—11” Call Comply with the request of the com"

SECRETARY DUVAL TO THOMAS L. SMITH
[FSL: Govr. Exec. Corres.: M*]
Office of the Secretary TALLAHAssEE–Florida–Sept. 13" 1843
SIR, Your letter to His Excell’y R K Call, requesting that the usual estimates for the year ending 30" June 1845,” might be prepared and transmitted to your Office, has been referred to me.
In compliance therewith I have the honor to submit to you the enclosed papers.
Very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida HON. T. L. SMITH Register of the Treasury Dep’t
[Enclosure]
Estimate of Territorial Expenses
(Estimate of Appropriations for the Territory of Florida for the half year ending 31* Dec 1844)
For the Contingent expenses of the Executive Office . . . $175 00
For three large book cases made for the use of the Executive Office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 00
For arrearages of Former Sessions of the Legislative Council. 400 00
695 00 (Estimate of Appropriations required to defray the expenses of the Legislative Council and Executive Office of the Territory of Florida, for the half year ending
30th June 1845)
Per diem of fifteen Senators for a Session of 75 days, at $4
per diem. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $4,500 00
Mileage of 15 Senators, at $4 for every 20 miles travelled . 1,349. 20
Additional pay to the President of the Senate, of $4 per diem, for 75 days . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300 00
Compensation for one Secretary, one clerk, one Sergeant at Arms, one Messenger and One Foreman, for a Session of 75 days, at $3 each, per diem . . . . . . . . . . 1, 125 00
For Stationery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 00
For Contingent expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 00
Per diem of 29 members of the House of Representatives, for 75 days, at $4 per diem . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,700 00
Additional pay of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, for 75 days, at $4 per diem . . . . . . • - © e 300 00

Mileage of 29 members at $4 for every 20 miles travelled. . 2, 240.00
Compensation for one Secretary, one Clerk, one Sergeant at Arms, one Messenger and one Foreman, for 75 days, at
$3 each per diem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1, 125.00
For Stationery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600.00
For Contingent expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600.00
For all miscellaneous printing of the two Houses, including the journals and the publication of the laws . . . . . 6, 500.00
For the Contingent expenses of the Executive Office . . 175 00
For distributing the laws to the Officers throughout the Territory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300.00
For making a copy of the laws for publication, and preparing an Index to the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300.00
For compensation to the private Sec'y of the Executive Office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400.00
$29,614.20
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF ST. AUGUSTINE</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. on Rev. Cut. Service, Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT Sept 18th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>GENTLEMEN Your letter of the 14" of August" last requesting that a Revenue Wessel may be stationed at S* Augustine for the purpose of preventing smuggling, Piracy and the abduction of slaves, is recieved, and in reply I have to state that the commander of the Cutter upon the Savanah Station has been directed to touch frequently at S" Augustine and the collector of the District is provided with a Revenue Boat, these arrangements are deemed all that is necessary in order to prevent infringments upon the Revenue laws.
The suppression of Piracy, or the protection of private property, are only incidental to the discharge of the legitimate duties prescribed by law to the Revenue vessels, and this Department has no power to provide vessels for either purpose, should however the commander of the vessel fall in with persons committing depredations upon the property of Citizens or abducting slaves by sea, he will doubtless consider it his duty to interfere.
I am Sir Very Resp”
J C SPENCER Secty T
To THE MAYOR & COUNCIL S*Augustine Fl"

VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE
iNA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]
Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE September 19" 1843.
SIR, I have the honor to call your attention to your letter of
16" January last," on the subject of a removal of this office to the City of St Augustine; My views on the subject have been made known to you by communication of the 25" May last;" at which time I was however undecided as to whether to prefer the above named location or Pilatka—upon mature deliberation I think the former place would be more advantageous, the contiguity to the office of the Keeper of the Public Archives being one of my reasons for this choice, the advantages which will arise in enabling my deputies to fit out & provide for a campaign &" and other reasons of a similar nature have bro’t me to this conclusion I would respectfully enquire of you if any other steps have been taken? if the department have positively concluded upon such a removal? If yes—when do you intend to order it? Or if to carry it into effect, it will be necessary for me to address a communication on the subject to his Excellency the President of the United States? your early attention to this matter is respectfully solicited."
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt V. Y. CONWAY. S. Gl THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Commissioner of the Gen' Land Office See Acts 8 May 1822 P 357 3 March 1823 P365 24 May 1824 P 377
[Endorsed] E Tallahassee Flor. 19 Sept 1843 W. Y. Conway SG.
Refers to his previous letters relative to removal of his office from Tallahassee, & thinks St Augustine would be the best point. Asks what has been done in the matter, & asks early attention. Jno Wilson 68 Octr 5th 1843
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING POSTMASTER GENERAL TO JOHN DARLING</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book P—I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT Sept. 25" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN DARLING Esq. Tampa, Fl. Ty.
In reply to yours of the 10" inst."you are informed that the Agent to whom the case of loss by mail spoken of by you was referred, "Ante, p. 599.

for investigation, was unable to make any useful discoveries respecting the same."
S.R.H.” Actg. P.M.G. By S.B.B.”
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>NEW YORK Sept 25* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. The opinion of the Attorney General” being in favor of permitting settlers under the Act for the armed occupancy and settlement of Florida, to dispose of the timber within their lines, opening thereby a large field for trespass the ensuing winter upon the public domain, on the Gulf side If you should think it beneficial to have an assistant appointed in that vicinity, as suggested to me on my first arrival in Washington, I would respectfully recommend to your notice Mr W* C Blydenburgh, whose ability and fidelity I have tested, and will pledge myself that He will discharge without fear or favor, for the interest of the General Government, any duty assigned him for the protection of timber on that side—
I remain With due respect Your Obt Servt H.L. THISTLE Agent for the preservation of timber on public Lands in East Florida HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle Sept 25/43 wants an assistant. T 146 Oct 3
Call file till the return of Capt Thistle HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>NEW YORK Sept 25* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. As You have decided that some of my expenses in surveying did not come within the authority invested in my commission—but from the representation of subsequent facts convincing You that no suits could have been instituted or sustained against the Brig Nimrod and other cases without those Surveys. You have admitted the propriety of having those expenses defrayed by the Court I
would respectfully request that directions may be given to have the

amount paid over to me, to be applied for the purpose of discharging the expenses of the Surveys at Mosquito. which remains from the condemnation of the Brig Nimrod, in the court of St Augustine, subject to the order of the Navy Department, amounting to about $500
And in relation to the cargo of Live Oak timber, amounting to Sixty Six Sticks, the value where of is about $6000 exclusive of freight, and which was adjudged by the court of Admiralty at St Augustine in April last to be the property of the United States, as having been cut from the public Land without authority—by a reference to the act of 1831, third Section,” it will be perceived that one half is awarded to the informer or informers, by which I should be entitled to that portion of the same—
To prove more fully that I was the informer in this case I would refer you to the enclosed copy of a letter to Mr Wallen, Marked A
dated March 3" and likewise to a copy of one to Mr Walker marked B. and a copy of Mr Walkers letter marked C*—I would therefore claim one half of the proceeds of the timber thus forfeited but I
would be distinctly understood that I do not request it for my private benefit, but I wish to have a portion of it reimburse the expenses I
have been to in surveying in the vicinity of the River St Johns—
There would then be a ballance of upwards of two thousand dollars to enable me to make surveys that are necessary in some suits now pending, to ascertain private land from public, and which cannot be sustained without them—
If my request should be complied with, of which I feel assured, it will be as the law is very plain upon that point, every cent shall be accounted for by me, for surveys that I may make for the protection of timber on the public lands, and other services which are connected with the agency.
There is a subject for investigation now pending before the court where surveys will be required to insure the rights of the General Government.—Suits involving property to the amount of ten thousand dollars and without the above named surveys, the Government is bound to loose the case—
All of which is respectfully submitted, and an early decision will be thankfully received.”
I am With due respect Your Obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for protection of timber on public Land in East Fla HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy

[Endorsed] Thistle Sept 25/43 wants expenses of surveys and half forfeits paid to him Encloses copies of two letters. wrote to Thistle about this Sept 25 1844 T 147 Oct 3 Call THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. Sent, PLC, Bk. 9]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, September 26" 1843.</place-time>
V. Y. CONWAY Esq." S Gen.' Tallahassee Florida SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 28"
Ult" referring to mine of the 31* July last” which has reference to the private Claim represented by M. Joseph Chaires—&c. You state that “Since the receipt of this letter” you “have used all means within” your “power to ascertain whether any such Survey as that returned by Don Andres Burgevin can be identified in the doing of which’” you “have applied to the claimants to know if they can identify their land and can (in conformity with said Survey) point out the beginning corner, to which they have replied that they cannot locate it” that you “have made enquiries with regard to the work generally, as done by the Said Burgevin and” are “credibly informed that it was his custom to make what are styled ‘Chimney Corner Surveys which is nothing more than returning a plat of Notes without ever having been on the ground;” that you “will therefore be compelled to delay further action in this matter until some one of"
your “Deputies shall be Sent in that direction, where he shall be instructed to give his attention to the subject”—
If the Survey in question cannot be identified in the locality, nothing further can be done in reference to Satisfying the claim without the interposition of Congress.
“In relation to the appointment of a Deputy for the exclusive Service of private claims,” you refer to what I have heretofore advised you in the matter, Viz: that “It would be very proper & indeed it is extremely desireable that a trustworthy & Compentent person should especially be employed for this purpose, to receive Such compensation as may be allowed by law”—
You then refer to the sum allowed by law—state that I “have not fully understood” your “views” as you “intended to convey them in” your “letter of 31" Ult”—that you thought “that such deputy should receive Such Salary as would compensate him or Some other mode of payment other than $4 per mile”—and state that “no deputy

of character can be found who would undertake this work at this rate” &c. - -
It is of course not competent for this Office to allow anything beyond the maximum stipulated by law for surveying,-and unless the services of a Competent & trustworthy surveyor can be procured at the rate stipulated in existing enactments, we shall have to await further legislative provision on the subject—
You are requested to furnish at as early a period as practicable an estimate of the Amount of Services of this description required to be performed, and the lowest rate per mile at which talent adequate to the performance of the work, can be Secured "–
</docbody>
<dochead>Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM. H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE September 26" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>W. H. SIMMONS Esq Register St Augustine Florida.
SIR: I have received your letter of the 16" Ins'" accompanied by one of the 11" Ins" from Gen' Worth * in which he represents that he has “rec" several communications from Citizens who have at an early period of the operation of the Armed Occupation Act, taken out permits for lands; situated within the Reservation around Palatka from which it would appear that they are menaced with the cancellation of their permits”—the General fears “some misapprehension on this subject,” and thinks “it has probably arisen from making general to all reserves, originally deserved necessary to military operations, a Special decision” asked “in reference to the Post of Fort Brook alone”—and states that “Palatka has ceased to be occupied as a Military Post and the buildings erected thereon abandoned to the proprietor of the soil agreeable to Contract, nor is it at all probable that it will ever be occupied again.” &c.
The 3" Section of the Armed Occupation Act of the 4” August
1842 is to the following effect—
“And be it further enacted, That no right or donation shall be acquired under this Act, within two miles of any permanent military post of the United States, established and garrisoned at the time such settlement and residence was commenced”—

The terms of this provision of law are clear and explicit—
In order to act understandingly in the matter, and determine the validity of the Permits alluded to by Gen' Worth, it is requested that you will, 1* Ascertain from that Officer the precise period at which Palatka ceased to be a “permanent military post of the United States—
2"You will then ascertain in the cases in which Permits may have been granted within two miles of the exterior limits of that post, the time at which the “settlement and residence was commenced” on the lands embraced by such permits.—
In all cases where such settlement and residence were commenced after Pilatka ceased to be a permanent Military Post, the Permits will hold, if correct in all other respects—in all cases where such settlement and residence were commenced before it was ceased to be regarded as a “permanent Military Post” and whilst it was “established and garrisoned” such permits are invalid—
You will make a careful examination into the facts in each case, and advise the settlers accordingly, and will make a full report to this Office at as early a period as possible of all your proceedings in the premises, making special reference to the No" and dates of the permits and giving your decision in each case”-
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES B. PENROSE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Exec. Officers:LS]</source>
<place-time>OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR OF THE TREASURY Sept 27, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR In regard to the claim of J. Westcott Jr, for services rendered in the Court of Appeals of Florida, at the last January term in the case of the U States appellant v Richard K. Call, and which you have referred to this office, I have the honor to report, --It appears by the papers submitted to me that Mr Westcott was employed “As assistant Counsel to the Dist Attorney by order and appointment of the Court of appeals.”
On the 6" of February last, the District Attorney Charles J. Sibley Esq" wrote * that Mr Westcott had been retained as associate Counsel and that his charge was $100. On the 27th of the same month M"

Sibley was informed in the reply from this office,” that the Solicitor Could not sanction the employment of M" Westcott. The item therefore, I am obliged to say ought not to be allowed to M' De Camp, the Marshal who paid it.
It is the design of the office, as far as practicable, to avoid the expense which has been incurred in times past, by the frequent employment of professional gentlemen to aid the District Attorneys.
A practice which prevailed, notwithstanding the circular from this office of the 15" of January 1832,” a copy of which I transmit.
That circular has been modified on advisement so that the permission to obtain additional Counsel is to be obtained upon application to the Head of Department usually through this office, and not upon request made to the President.
It also appears upon examination of the papers referred to me that M" DeCamp the Marshal, has paid one Hundred dollars to W* H.
Brockenborough Esq, as Counsel fee in prosecutions of the Territory of Florida against Jeremiah W Powers on four indictments for forgery.
M" Brockenborough having been appointed by the Court at the instance and request of the District Attorney. These cases of course do not appear upon the records of this office—but if they did, in the absence of authority from the proper Department to procure associate Counsel, the claim could not be allowed. It seems however to have been paid by M. DeCamp, the Marshal, and I am obliged also to say in this instance, that the item ought not to be allowed in his accounts.
I return the papers and am Very Resp' Your Ob" Serv"
C.B. PENROSE Solicitor &c By FRANCIS BRINLEY Law Clerk HON: J.C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Solicitor of Treasury 27 Sep 1842 reccommending disallowance of charges for payments to assistant counsel where not previously authorised to be employed I concur in this opinionadvise Mr Camp. J.C. Spencer Septr 27 '43
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>Sept. 27. 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. I am in receipt of your letter of the 28" Ult° * in which you acknowledge the reception of mine of the 4" of the same month *

“on the subject of missing field marks in the old surveys” &c, and specially refer to the following portion of it, viz:
“I avail myself of this occasion to impress upon you the importance
& necessity of supervising the work of your deputies, before paying for the same, & returning it to this Office, so as to ensure the faithful marking of the corners on the field. If there is reason to believe that this part of the work has been slighted, payment should be witheld, until proper evidence is produced to remove the doubt.”
In reference to this portion of my instructions, you assure me that you “have & shall continue to be most careful & vigilant in the investigation of the truth & accuracy of the surveys, which have and shall be made by’’ your “Deputies”, and advise me, that your
“greatest care has been to select only such agents as were above even the shadow of suspicion,” that “if notwithstanding the high rank &
standing of each & all of your “present surveying corps, actual imposition or wilful neglect shall have been practiced by either one of them,” you “shall look for prompt detection in the rapid settlement of the country & by means of the keen scrutiny of those who shall purchase the public lands”—that—“in such an event it will be recollected that the responsibility of the Surveyor does not cease after the reception of his field notes & payment for his work,” &c.
Your letter evinces a commendable spirit, but you must bear in mind that until the work of your Deputies is fully tested & its accuracy ascertained by actual protractions from the field notes, you are not authorized to pay for it—Besides—even if the work correctly protracts, and you have any reason to believe or suspect any irregularities or defects either in establishing or marking the corners or bearing trees on the field, you are bound in any and all such cases to withhold payment and forthwith institute a thorough investigation.
If such matters be deferred until the errors are detected, “in the rapid settlement of the country,” and in view of the responsibility of the Deputies after the work is paid for, a long train of evils and embarrassments, saying nothing of the danger of loss to the government in seeking redress, may be the consequence not only to citizens in the purchase & location of lands, but to the Government in the disposal of the public domain.
I am induced now to draw your attention in this manner to this subject in consideration of the complaints that have been preferred to this Office against the new surveys that have been contracted for by you.
The enclosed copy of a letter dated 27* July last * & postmarked

the 31* Ult° bearing seven signatures, will place you in possession of the nature of this complaint.
You will perceive it represented that the writers of the letter referred to “heard at the Manatee that this portion of the country
(alluding to Charlotte's Harbour) had been surveyed”—But to their
“deep regret after the most minute and vigilant search for the surveyors lines, for a space of at least twenty miles in radius, one line has been all that” they “could make out; and that ran north from Charlotte's Harbour towards Tampa Bay”—that on their “arrival at the Manitee” they “learned that the whole survey was only a 'sham’,”
&c.
The section of country referred to appears to fall within the contract made by you with Samuel Reed.
As these charges go to discredit the public surveys, it is important, and you are therefore hereby required forthwith to make an enquiry into the matter (after calling upon M* Reed for explanation) and to report the result to this Office as early as possible.
This is merely a preliminary measure, to be followed, if further information should require it, by an order for a thorough examination of the work on the ground in connection with the field Notes.
I will write under this date to the individuals making the complaint, for a statement under oath, and in as specific a form as they can make it, touching the alleged defects in the surveys. A copy of such answer as I may receive will be sent to you.”
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comr.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>Sept 27, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee Flo.
SIR. It appearing from the explanations contained in your communication to this office of the 28" Ult”,” that the contract of Mr E. L. Thomas, taken in connection with your special instructions, was for three hundred and fifty miles of surveying and no more, and that he has returned to your Office three hundred and fifty four miles, you are authorized to settle M Thomas' account, the payment of which you state, has been withheld for further instructions.
In making your contracts, you are requested in future where practicable, to be governed by the limits of the Contract and not by the number of miles of Surveying in it, which are only estimated;—

and I would further remark, that it is expedient that the estimates should be liberal, so that the number of miles in any contract should rather fall short of than exceed the estimate."
I am Very respy Your Ob"S"
</docbody>
<dochead>THO. H. BLAKE Com THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Septr. 28" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. J. WORTH Comdg. 9" Dept. St. Augustine Florida.
SIR; At the opening of Congress inquiries no doubt will be frequently made, (as already has been the case, since peace and quiet have been restored in Florida) as to the number and description of Indians yet remaining in the territory, and what disposition they manifest, as to their emigration west, at some future time?–In order to be prepared for answering such questions as correctly as circumstances will allow, I have to request that you will please communicate such information on the subject as you may be possessed of, or able to obtain. A tabular statement showing the number, arranged according to the several bands or towns, &c, would be very interesting, and useful for the Department of War.
Your report of December 19" 1842,” gave the number captured, &c, of Halleck Tustenuggee's band, also those sent in by Lt. Col.
Belknap from Pease Creek and Carlosahatchee River, and we have also the numbers taken by Lieut. Colonel Hitchcock in Middle Florida, and those of Octeartee's people, seized by Brevet Major Seawell, but I am inclined to believe there are some other Indians of which we have no account, known as Southern Indians who came in to Tampa Bay about the close of last year. If such be the fact, will you be good enough to furnish me with an account of their numbers, that I may be enabled to complete a statement made March 28."
1842," of the number of Indians and negroes captured, &c. &c.
Since the commencement of hostilities—and any other information you may be able to communicate touching the subject, as you may suppose would be useful, or satisfactory, to be known at the War Office.
I am Sir, &c.
R. JoNES, Adjt. General.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup. Bk. 5*]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE September 29" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>To V. Y. CONWAY Esq Surveyor General Florida Territory SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 30" Ultimo,” and of the plats of Survey and copies of Field notes of the townships therein enumerated, recently surveyed under the contract of M Thomas C. Weightman.
According to these plats, three of the townships, to wit, TP. 21 S.
of Range 18 East, and Tps 14 & 15 S. of Range 20 East, include a number of Settlements under the “Armed Occupations Act,”" which have been surveyed, laid down and full colored pink on the Said Plats, so as to interrupt the regular Section lines, and thereby render the Sections fractional. This was not contemplated in the instructions from this Office to you of the 24th Sept 1842,” nor in the instructions to the Registers and Receivers," copies of which were sent to you.
The instructions to the Registers & Receivers treated the Survey to be made by the Settlers, as a mere preliminary step, to enable you to lay down their settlements correctly by “dotted lines in the Official Plats of Survey,” and as “most useful and material evidence in the final adjustment of the boundary lines of claims before the patents can issue”, and likewise to enable the settler as required by the fourth clause of the first Section of the Act, after seeing the location of the improvement in connexion with the lines of the contiguous Surveys, to determine the particular quarter Section, which embraces his improvement, and which he is entitled to claim.
I have therefore to request, that on the plats yet to be returned to this Office and to the Register and Receiver, you will have all the Section lines fully run out and regularly laid down, and that in making such further surveys as may be necessary to effect this object, you will instruct your Deputies to confer with the settlers on the spot, and obtain from them in writing the designation of the particular “quarter Section” which they may respectively select as embrasing their improvements and settlements—On receiving such written designation
(which you will carefully retain in your files) You will indicate on the maps the particular quarters selected, by a full shade of Pink, noting by dotted lines or shading as near as maybe, the locality of their settlements and improvements.—

You will likewise instruct the Deputies, in any case where there is a “Settlement on the same quarter Section by two or more Settlers”
to lay all the facts before you, and you will thereupon report the Same to the Register and Receiver for decision under the 2"Section of the Act”
As the plats of the three townships above numerated will not be placed in the regular files of plats, you are requested to transmit to this Office, and to the Register plats of Said townships, amended in conformity to the views expected in the foregoing.
I perceive that the subdivisions of the fractional Sections on the above plats are made under the Act of 24" April 1820"—that the lines are drawn with black ink—and that all the lots are numbered—I
have therefore to state for your information and future guidance in subdividing fractional quarter Sections, that all new plats must show the subdivisions in quarter quarter Sections under the Act of 5" April
1832, and the circular of instructions from this Office to the Surveyors General of the 8" May 1832*—that no lot should be numbered which forms a regular subdivision of a quarter Section, and therefore admits of being described by its relative position and that red ink must be used for all the subdivision lines of fractional Sections, as well as the figures denoting the lengths of the lines and contents of the lots—
Enclosed is a diagram of the Township 17 N Range 4 East of the
4" Prin Mer: Wiskonsan Ter. showing the subdivisions of fractional Sections situated on Rush Lake, which will serve as an example.
</docbody>
<dochead>I am sir, very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA: JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. re Land Cases: ALS]</source>
<place-time>STAUGUSTINE Septr. 29th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>C. B. PENROSE Esq Solicitor of the Treasury.
SIR. Your letter of the 16" Inst is received,” and complied with, I here with transmit you a copy of a letter drawn up, and signed by

Mr Douglas & myself as you requested; to Robert B. Campbell Esq our consul at Havana, you will see from this letter if the testimony of the Comp” witnesses should be taken previous to his recept of our communication, we have requested him to geather all the information. relating to the characters of the witnesses & the Notary
(M. Manuel Fornari) in whos office it is pretended, the original grants of the Arredondos, are said to be filed—If the testimony is such as to change, the aspect of the cases—we shall of course continue the suits, untill we can take testimony in behalf of the United States—
Mr Douglass has been dangerously ill and is yet unable to leave his room, but is now slowly recovering—
I am Respectfully Your Obt Sert Wm P. DUVAL
[Endorsed] S*Augustine Sept. 29. 1843. W." P. Duval, Agent of Fl. Land claims Inclosing copy of letter to Consul at Havana relative to taking depositions in Florida land cases—
[Enclosure]
William P. DuVal and Thomas Douglas to Robert Campbell
(Copy) STAUGUSTINE, E. F. Sept 29th 1843.
ROBERT B CAMPBELL Esq Consul for the United States at Havana.
SIR. We have the honor to transmit herewith, a Copy of a letter from the Solicitor of the Treasury, bearing date the 16" Instant.
There are three Suits pending in the Superior Court in this place, on as many grants, Said to Emanate from the former Governor White of East Florida. The Suits were originally instituted in the mames of Fernando M de la Maza Arridondo and his two Sons. The grants cover, in seperate tracts, two hundred and fifty six thousand, Fifty thousand, and forty thousand acres of land, in East Florida which the claimants aver, were issued to them, the fist, on the second day of April in the Year 1809. The second on the twenty fourth of April
1810. and the last on the twelfth day of January 1811. No such grants or copies are to be found among the archives of this Territory.
These Suits were instituted against the United States, near fifteen years since, under a Special law of Congress, & from that time, to the present, they have been continued, on the application of the claimants for various causes, but for some years past, on the ground, that the original grants were in the Island of Cuba. Before the institution of these suits, the Claimants presented their petitions for the confirmation of these claims, before the Board of Land Commissioners appointed under an Act of Congress passed in the year 1822 or 1823, to examine into the land claims of East Florida, and to report their decisions

thereon, to Congress." At that time these claimants presented Copies only of these grants, and the report made by the said Board, was adverse to these claims." In the suits now pending copies only are filed, and the claimants have uniformly, (until recently) declared they had not , and did not know where the original grants were, but now they pretend to have discovered the Originals in the City of Havana in the Office of a Notary named Manuel Fornari; the same office from which they had many years since, obtained the copies of the Grants It is now stated by the grantees, that original grants were not only recorded in said notarys office, but are there on file, although they had repeatedly declared heretofore, that the originals were not in that office, and therefore they could only obtain copies from its records. If these grants had emanated from Governor White, they would have been recorded, either, in the Office of the Secretary or in the Escrebano's Office in St Augustine. All Grants not made by the King of Spain himself, emanated from the Governor of Each province. If the consession was granted, it was usually indorsed on the petition of the party, conditional, or absolute, as the Governor might determine. These concessions, and the petitions, were duly recorded in the Secretary’s office, and when a survey of the lands was made, a royal title was formaly given to the grantee, and that was recorded in the Escrebano's Office at St Augustine—no such grants or records exist in either of the Offices. We are of opinion, the claimants in fact, have no legal, or equitable right, or claim, to the land in Controversy, and if such grants do exist in the said Notarial Office of Mr Manuel Fornari they are fraudulent & false. These grants said to be made by Governor White, So many years past, and so long before the transfer of Florida to the United States, renders it more certain they would have been recorded at St Augustine, if they had ever been honestly obtained. It is for the Claimants to account for this extreordinary absence of all record evidence of their Claims. The Complainants have taken out a Commission from the Superior Courthere, to take the testimony of certain persons therein named, in the City of Havana, and you are named as one of the Commissioners. It is important the United States should have an agent on the spot able to protect our interests, in these cases, by a full and fair examination of the Witnesses, that the claimants may produce, to sustain the validity, and genuine character of these documents; and especially to ascertain by the proof of the signatures, annexed to the grants, if they are truly the hand writing of the Governor & Secretary, and also to learn if practicable, when they were actually placed, or recorded in the

Notarys Office—It should be clearly stated whether or not, the grants are copies and as such have been recorded.—and also if those on file are not likewise Copies. The Characters & Standing of the Witnesses if possible should be enquired into, and if they have not some interest in the events of the Suits, and also their respective ages.
Should the witnesses testify in favour of the Grants, it would be proper to enquire of them, the facts on which they found their opinions, and conclusions, how they derive their knowledge of the facts, this would show what credit ought to be given to their testimony.
The Credit & character of the Notary—you may perhaps, by enquiring, learn and particularly if his Office, is the proper one for keeping land titles and recording grants, made by the Governors of East Florida, or by the Captain General, for lands granted in Cuba. If the Grantees or any of them, deposited these deeds with the notary, or ordered them to be recorded, the fact, that the parties interested, had so directed, will go to prove, they intended some fraud, and should not claim any advantage by their own illegal act, If these Grants are recorded in the said Notarys Office, you may easily learn, if it is the Custon, or Law, in Cuba, for Notary's to record as a matter of Course, any writing, offered for that purpose, and how far such a record would be received as evidence in the Courts of Cuba, in legal proceedings. It might be prudent to ascertain in what office grants of lands in Cuba are regularly recorded by Law.
We would suggest if you are not intimately acquainted with the Spanish Language, that you should procure some competant Spanish scholar in whom you can confide, to attend the examination of the witnesses, and see that the words as spoken, are written down, as uttered by the witness not varied, or transposed, So as to change the Meaning of the words.
The Objects of the Claimants, is, to prove that the copies admited heretofore by them, to be in the Office Manuel Fornari are in fact the Original Grants. It is well known that Ex President Jackson sent agents twice during his administration, to the Captain General of Cuba, to obtain all the papers in the public offices under his control, relating to the Concerns of Florida "–that property belonged to its archives, and Specially for such as related to the land titles in the Territory. Gen' R. K. Call. now Governor of Florida was the last Agent sent to Cuba for this purpose, and Mr Thomas Douglas then, as now, District Attorney, of the United States for this Judicial District, furnished Genl Call with copies of these grants taken [the papers

in the public Offices under his control, relating to the elaims concerns of Florida—that property belonged to its archives—and specially, for such as related to the land titles in the Territory. General R. K.
Call, now Governor of Florida, was the last agent sent to Cuba, for this purpose, and Mr Thomas Douglas then, as now, District Attorney of the United States for this Judicial District, furnished General Call, with Copies of these Grants, taken]” from the Copies filed by the Claimants, who took the same to Havana, expressly to ascertain if the Original Grants were there. After due inquiry, & Strict examination, in the proper offices no such Grants could be found. The Captain General afforded him all the aid in his power, to collect all records, which might properly belong to Florida—and it is believed, he issued an order, or proclamation, to all Officers under him, to collect & deliver to General Call, all such documents. If a copy of this order, or proclamation, can be obtained, duly certified by the Governor, or his Secretary, under the Official Seal, it might be of service in the trial of these cases—Should you obtain this document, we request you will as early as practicable transmit it to this City, by way of Charleston, directed to Thomas Douglas District Attorney &c Should the testimony under the Commission taken out by the Claimants be taken before this Communication is received, Still the information requested will be of importance as we shall (if necessary)
continue the suits, for the United States, until testimony in their behalf, can be taken in Cuba. Your advice might enable us, as counsel, to frame interrogatories in the best form, to elicit the facts truly—
The Names of the witnesses you may deem proper to have examined, please give to us as they must be inserted in the Commission. It may be necessary & proper for you to communicate with the Solicitor of the Treasury, if you discover any facts, or evidence, or information that may benefit the United States, or throw light on these claims—
</docbody>
<dochead>Respectfully Your Obt Svts W" P. DUVAL Special counsel THO" DOUGLAS U.S. Atty THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE Sep. 30. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CoNWAY (S. G. of Florida) Stafford C. H. W*
SIR. Having learned that you are in Virginia, I deem it proper to inform you that I have addressed instructions to you at Tallahassee

Florida, of a very important character, having reference to operations connected with the surveys in Florida.
Complaints have reached this Office alleging serious defects in the new surveys contracted for by you, and animadverting on your administration in the surveying department.
Allow me to say that these, and other matters, in regard to which I have despatched advices to you at Tallahassee, render your immediate return to your post not only extremely desirable, but indeed indispensably necessary.”
Very respy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE—Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>October 5, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY. S. G. Tallahassee Flo.
SIR. On further examination of the plats received with your communication of the 30” Ult°," it is found that subdivison plats will likewise be required of fractional sections 1.2.11.13.14.23.24.25.26.
and 36 on Lake “Charley Apopka” in tp 18 S. of R 19 E, amended in the manner prescribed in my communication to you of the 29" ult."—
You will therefore transmit such plats to this Office, and to the Register at Newnansville to be filed with the township plat.
It is also discovered that your Deputy (M. Weightman) has thrown the excess or deficiency on the above and other townships in his district, on the tiers of sections adjoining the Southern and Western boundaries of the township instead of throwing the same on the Northern and Western tiers, as required by the 3" Section of the Act of the
10" May 1800,” and the Circular of instructions to the Surveyors General of the 9* Nov. 1821, page 826, part II. printed laws and instructions,” to which you are referred. As the section corners have been marked on the field, it is not deemed expedient to disturb them for the correction of this irregularity, but I have to request that in all future surveys you will take particular care to give such instructions to your Deputies as will prevent the recurrence of such irregularities the law being imperative on the subject.

You will perceive from the foregoing examples the importance and necessity of perusing with the most careful attention, all the laws, and the general instructions from this Office relating to the surveys, which will mostly be found in the two printed volumes of compilations of land laws & instructions, in order to become sufficiently familiar with them, to take the steps necessary for carrying them into effect, and to be able promptly to check in their inception, any irregularities either in the field or Office work.”
</docbody>
<dochead>I am very resp? Your Ob" St THO. H. BLAKE Commissioner THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 17]</source>
<place-time>Oct 5, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>W" SIMMONS Esq Reg' &c St Augustine E. F.
SIR, Having heard it intimated that the late Receiver, Jn” C.
Cleland is in your employ, I cannot fail to make of you immediate enquiry in relation thereto.
If it be true that you give official countenance to an individual whose conduct as Receiver of public moneys has brought such a weight of reproach on the land Office at S*Augustine, it will be justly matter of surprize to the Department; and the more especially so, as your former official association with that individual, during the occurrence of his official delinquencies, which you failed to detect, had nearly proved an insuperable obstacle to your re-appointment to Office.
Respectfully THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, October 6"1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor herewith to submit two Memorials, marked A. B. from a number of citizens of Florida, requesting that the Office of Surveyor General of that Territory, may be removed from its present location at Tallahassee in West Florida, to St. Augustine in East Florida.” There are also enclosed a letter from the Surveyor General of 28 January last," marked C in which he requested time to examine
1. Cf. post, p. 760.
in Ante, p. 623,636.

into the expediency of this removal—one of 27" February last,"
marked D. in which he states, that he is thoroughly satisfied that his Office should be located at St Augustine, but would prefer that the removal should not take place until next (this) fall,—and one of the
19" Ult:” marked E. again calling the attention of this office to this removal, and giving his reasons for preferring St Augustine to Pilatka, as the future location of his Office.
Should you concur with me in opinion, that this removal is desirable, I have to request that you will submit to the President for his signature, the accompanying form of a Notice, for carrying the same into effect.
I have the honor to be, With great respect, Your Obt. Servant THOS H BLAKE Commissioner.
HON: J. C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Gen: Land Office October 6, 1843—Tho. H. Blake—
Comm” Relative to the removal of the Surveyor General's Office, from Tallahassee to St Augustine, Florida—With Notice for the President's signature–Submits papers A.B.C.D & E. in support of s" removal. I respectfully recommend to the President the removal of the Land office as within suggested—J.C. Spencer Sec'y of the Treasury October 7, 1843 The President's order for the removal is dated Oct' 6" 1843—See instructions to M'. Conway dated Oct 12"
1843.1%
[Enclosure: DS 20]
Executive Order of the President
|October 6, 1843]
NOTICE
In relation to the removal of the Office of the Surveyor General from Tallahassee to St. Augustine.
In virtue of the authority vested in the Executive by the 6" Section of the Act of Congress, approved 8" May 1822, entitled “An Act for ascertaining claims and titles to land within the Territory of Florida,””
and the unrepealed portion of the 7" Section of the Act of Congress, approved 3" March 1823,” entitled “An Act amending and supplementary to the ‘Act for ascertaining claims and titles to land in the Territory of Florida’ and to provide for the survey and disposal of

the public lands in Florida”—Notice is hereby given, that the Office of Surveyor General of Florida is to be removed from Tallahassee to St Augustine, as soon as the necessary arrangements for that purpose can be made. -
Special notice as to the precise date of the removal will be given by the Surveyor General. -
Given under my hand at the City of Washington, the sixth day of October A.D. 1843.
JOHN TYLER
By the President, THOS H BLAKE Commissioner of the General Land Office.
[Endorsed] President of U.S. 6 Oct 1843. Directs the removal of the office of the Surv' Gen' of Florida, from Tallahassee to St. Augustine. Referred by Secy of Treasury. 10 Oct 1843. The President's order for the removal of the S. Gen" Office from Tallahassee to St Augustine, Florida, dated 6" Oct. 1843 and other papers in relation thereto are filed with Letters rec" from the President.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX.]</source>
<place-time>6. Oct. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. In answer to your communication of the 21" Ult°* desiring to know to what extent your regularly organized Corps of Surveyors may be called upon to engage in carrying on the Surveying operations during the ensuing winter, I have to inform you, that, from the information now in this Office, the principal surveying which will be ordered, will be between the lands embraced in the contracts of Henry Washington Esq & Benj" F. Whitner Esq and the Sea Shore, —and probably South of the lands embraced in those contracts, and East of Kissimee River. The extent of these new surveys, however, will depend upon your report, and the conclusion of the work now under Contract. Should the interest & convenience of the public require that many of the Townships the exteriors of which only have been run, should be divided into sections, the area of the new Surveys will be diminished, of course, as there are only $10,000.—now appropriated for Surveys in Florida. It is always expected, however, that the Surveyor General Should report to this Office such work as the public convenience requires, and which will bring into market such lands as will command a ready sale, -as, from his position he must, necessarily, be much better acquainted with the wants of the people and

the Character of the soil, than this Office possibly can be. It is always expedient, furthermore, that no more surveys should be contracted for, than the force provided for in your Office can prepare for report to this Office, within a reasonable time after their completion,-as the mere surveys on the field, the plats of which are not returned, is an outlay of the public money, without corresponding advantage to the public service.”
Very respy Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE Oct 7" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: JAMES M. PORTER Secretary of War.
SIR: Herewith I enclose a list marked (A) of certain Permits that have been issued at Newnansville Florida, under the Florida Armed Occupation Act of the 4” August 1842 * to individuals to settle on certain Islands or Keys on the Florida Coast;
Under a letter from your Department of the 21" September 1842,”
indicating the opinion that, “Cedar Keys, and other Island near the Coast should be held in reservation,” all the Keys on the coast of Florida have been regarded by this Office as reserved; and as therefore not subject to the Operations of the Act abovementioned.—As the Permits mentioned in the enclosed however have been issued, I deem it proper to ask your advice as to whether the islands mentioned are still reserved, and if not, at what period they were released from reservation.”
With great respect Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets to SG, DX]</source>
<place-time>October 10, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq Sur: Gen.' Tallahassee Florida SIR. Herewith you will receive a copy of the Executive order for the removal of the Office of the Surveyor General of Florida from Tallahassee to St Augustine.”

You will take prompt measures to secure at S*Augustine suitable accommodations for your Office and to carry into effect the order for removal.
The archives of your Office are to be properly arranged and securely packed up in boxes for transportation—
In case the furniture of your Office should be not regarded as of value sufficient to justify the expense of its transportation, you will exercise your judgement in the matter and if expedient you will dispose of the useless appurtenances at public auction and procure at the new location of your Office other fixtures in lieu thereof.
On the removal you will issue a public Notice of the fact, to be inserted in the newspapers of the Territory at suitable points once a week for six weeks,—and charge the necessary expenses in your quarterly account-
You are requested to communicate with this Office on receipt hereof.”
I am very respectfully Sir, Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX.]</source>
<place-time>October 12th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. Gen' D. L. Clinch claims being the owner of certain private claims, the surveys of which were confirmed by the Supreme Court of the U.S. at the January term 1842, in the case of “The United States vs Breward”—Peter's Reports, 16–143–These claims, Gen" Clinch further alleges, cover certain lands in Town: 13–R 21. S & E, now in the Alachua District, Florida; and that part of these lands have been purchased at private sale, and part are covered by “permits” under the Armed occupation law.”
In order that these conflicting interests may at once be settled, you are requested to have the private claims, above mentioned, surveyed, and the surveys of them connected with those of the public lands.
I would suggest, that you should employ on this service, one of your most experienced and skilful Deputies, whose character for honesty and integrity is unimpeachable, and after having been put in possession of the surveys confirmed by the Supreme Court, that due notice should be given to the parties in interest, of the time when those surveys will be located by the Deputy, that they may, if they desire it, * Answered post, p. 773.

be present. The deputy should then locate these claims, precisely in accordance with the calls of the surveys confirmed by the Supreme Court. Should he, however find it impossible thus to locate them, or should he find any discrepancies between the lines on the ground, run by Geo. F. Clark," Sur: Gen" and the calls of the surveys as confirmed, he should report all the facts to you, and his report should accompany yours to this Office.
The lines of these private claims and their connection with the public surveys, should be clearly and plainly marked, and if surveyed in accordance with the surveys confirmed by the Supreme Court (and they should not be surveyed at all, unless they can be thus surveyed)
a plat of them, together with a plat showing the sections and subdivisions rendered fractional by them should be sent to the land Office, and another, with a copy of the field notes, to this Office. When Gen."
Clinch furnishes you with the surveys of these claims, as confirmed, you may find it necessary to give other and more explicit instructions to the deputy, a copy of which should also accompany your report to this Office.
No more than four dollars per mile can be allowed by this Office, for these surveys, -that being the maximum allowed by law for surveys in Florida Territory, except a special appropriation made by the Act of 3" March 1837,” a small part only of which remains, and which cannot be applied to this service.
As this case may be the first of a series, the principles of all of which may be fixed by it, I cannot too earnestly impress it upon you to be extremely careful and cautious in the whole business—in the selection of your Deputy, and in your instructions to him, which should be of the plainest and most explicit character, and particularly impressing upon him, that the lines of his survey, must strictly conform to the survey confirmed by the Supreme Court.
The surveys mentioned in the decision of the supreme Court, may be found among the records of the Superior Court of East Florida, as this case was remanded to that Court, to be further proceeded in, as regards the rejected survey of three thousand Acres. This tract of
3000 Acres does not, of course, come within the purview of these instructions.
Charles Byrne, of St Augustine, is the person principally opposing these claims of Gen Clinch. A M'. Lee, also, has some entries, which, it is alleged, conflict with them.

Both these gentlemen should be notified of the time when your deputy will commence his labors.”
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, PLC Incoming Corres.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE October 17* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to receive your communication of the 29*
ultimo,” acknowledging the receipt of the plats of Survey and copies of Field Notes of Townships surveyed under contract of Thomas H.
Weightman.
Allow me to call your attention to the following paragraph in your letter. “According to these plats, three of the townships, to wit, Tp. 21 S of Range 18 East, and Tps. 14 & 15 S of Range 20 E, include a number of settlements under the “Armed Occupation Act”
which have been surveyed, laid down, and full colored pink on the said plats, so as to interrupt the regular section lines, and thereby render the Sections fractional. This was not contemplated in the instructions from this office to you of 24" September 1842,” nor in the instructions to the Registers & Receivers, copies of which were sent to you” Upon referring to the instructions of 24” September above cited, I find the following “These will aid you in selecting the Townships to be first sub-divided, and if received in time, will enable you to have each settlement Surveyed simultaneously with the section lines.” “The Settlements should wherever practicable conform to the Section lines—they should likewise be represented on the Township maps by a distinctive colour say a pink shade, with the name of the applicant, and the number of his notice written thereon.”
The Surveys have been made and the plats returned in strict accordance with these instructions, upon which there seems to be no room for misconstruction—my instructions to my deputies on this point were copied verbatim et literatim from your instructions to this office, duplicates of which were promptly forwarded to Washington, and placed on file, and consequently recognized by you as embodying your views—as an evidence of the palpable tenor of these instructions, every Deputy who was sent into the field, has interpreted them in the same manner, altho' it would evidently have been greatly to

their interest, to have placed upon them the construction which you now do, and to have totally disregarded the permits in running out the section lines. Again, in my humble opinion it would be doing manifest injustice to the Settler to compel him to come within the Section lines, as in a large majority of cases these lines would cut up their settlements in such a manner as to render them valueless. Let us suppose the case of a settler, who under the Armed Occupation Act has gone into an unsurveyed portion of the Territory, and when perhaps the land may not be surveyed in ten years—at the end of that period the surveys are made, and his settlement is so cut up by them as to throw him almost entirely into miserable pine barren—
Can it be supposed for a moment that Congress ever intended that a settler after cultivating and improving a rich tract of land, obtained through the liberal provisions of this law, should be compelled to abandon his improvements, and be cut off with such land as not even the poorest man would receive as a gift?
At the time of the receipt of your communication, the complete returns of Lewis M. Prevost Jr were ready to be forwarded to your office, but I have now delayed sending them until I receive further instructions from you upon the matter, as I do not fully understand what you still require to be done. You say “I have therefore to request that on the plats yet to be returned to this office and to the Register & Receiver, you will have all the Section lines fully run out and regularly laid down, and that in making such further surveys, as may be necessary to effect this object, you will instruct your Deputies &c.” I am at a loss to understand from this whether you intend that a Deputy is to be appointed to go into the field for the purpose of running, and marking the Section lines which have been interrupted by the Surveys of Permits, in the work which has already been returned into this office, or whether the Deputies who have already returned their work complete, in conformity with the instructions they have received from me, are to be required again to take the field to effect this object, —or do they refer to future operations, and are the distances through the permits in Surveys already made, to be ascertained by latitude & departure and laid down upon the plats? Should a deputy be commissioned for this purpose, in what manner is payment to be made him for the work? I should be pleased to receive from you a specimen of the mode in which you desire the Township plats to be executed.”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Your Obd" Serv"
- V. Y. CONWAY S Gen."
THOS. H. BLAKE Esqr. Comm Gen' Land...Office

[Endorsed] Office of the Surveyor General Tallahassee Oct. 17, 1843
V.Y. Conway Su Gen". Ack" the recp" of the Comm” letter of the
29" Ult° & requests further instruction relative to Surveys, township plats &c.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON. Octr 17–1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. The substance of the letter addressed by me some time since to the Bureau of construction, and which it seems cannot now be traced," was to obtain from you in the first place authority for the large quantity of Live Oak already cut and ready for shipment by Palmer and Ferris, (under their contract with the Board of Gehaha Navy Commissioners) to be shipped to the Yards for which it is destined according to the contract, it being impossible for P. & F. to obtain any vessels for that purpose while they are exposed to the delays and dangers attending the harsh course of late introduced into practise in the management of the Live Oak Agency in Florida. In the next place they desire a prolongation of their contract for one year, which has been rendered necessary by the interruption of their business last winter, and in the third place, they ask the issual by the Department of such instructions as has been invariably its practise heretofore, and such as are now in existence in respect to one set of Live Oak Contractors in East Florida (those from Virginia) to wit, that where any doubt shall arise as to the property of the soil from which they have purchased Live Oak timber, the timber shall be shipped to the Yard for which it is designed, and a measurement of it preserved seperately, so that should the property prove in the end to be in the United States, the value of the it, at fair and equitable rate, should be reserved from the contract price. This has been the invariable practise of the Department in all such cases.
I have briefly stated the objects of the letter refered to. and I have now only to add that Mess" P. & F., who have most just cause to complain of the harsh course pursued by the Agent of the Gov"
towards them, and who will be obliged to appeal to the justice of the Nationtoindemnify them for the damages it has occasioned, them, have employed their usual large force of laborers to go on with the work under their contract this Season, who are all now collected in New York and are remaining there at great expence awaiting the answer of the Department to the points above presented. Without such

arrangement as is desired in the first & last of the items of their application, it will be impossible for them to proceed with any further work this Winter, and the consequence will be that the arrangements at the Yards which depend upon the procurement of this timber will be disappointed, and that the large quantity of valuable timber cut last season will remain rotting in the woods until it becomes valueless for naval uses. As I before remarked it is impossible to charter a vessel for its transportation without a previous deekaratien assurance by the Department that she shall not be delayed or endangered by prosecutions.
I have the honor to be Sir Your Obt Serv"
D LEVY
HON. DAVID HENSHAW Secy of the Navy.
[Endorsed] Levy Oct 17 Asks that Palmer & Ferris' timber may be shipped. Enclosed ans to Levy the Substance to Bur of Const DOne Oct 1988 To be returned L 113 Oct 19 Call THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN General Letter Book, 32]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT October 19th 1843.</place-time>
HON: D. LEVY Washington City.—
SIR, In reply to your letter of the 17" inst received yesterday,”
I have to remark that the Department will authorise the shipment by Palmer & Ferris of the live Oak now cut, on the conditions you suggest, viz: that if any of it shall have been cut on government land, a fair price is to be allowed to the government for it.
The appropriation for “Increase and repairs” being exhausted, the Department has no means to pay for any more live Oak on an extended contract, and this would seem to be a sufficient reason against an extension.
I do not think it expedient to authorise Palmer & Ferris to cut live Oak on lands of doubtful title. It seems to me, that the Contractors ought to avoid cutting on any land but that known to be owned by individuals.
Orders will be given to and strictly enjoined upon the Live Oak Agent to avoid all unnecessary interference with persons cutting

Live Oak and to seize no timber but such as is known to have been cut on public land without legal authority."
I have the honor to be Sir Very respectfully Your Obdt. Servt DAVID HENSHAW.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, Ix]</source>
<place-time>Oct. 20. 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. Tallahassee Florida.
SIR. On the 21" Ult” you advised this Office, that the surveying season for your district was now approaching, and desired to know the extent to which new surveys would be ordered. In answer to that letter I advised you on the 6" inst.” that the extent of the new surveys would depend upon the number of townships, the exteriors of which had been surveyed, which the convenience of the settlers, or the public interest should require to be subdivided, as there were only ten thousand dollars now appropriated applicable to new surveys in your District. On the 12" inst,” you were authorized to contract for the location of the private claims, the surveys of which were confirmed by the decision of the Supreme Court of the U.S. at its January term 1842, in the case of the U. S. vs: Breward. The amount of this contract must, of course, be deducted from the $10.000—available as above mentioned for new surveys;—and should you be satisfied that it is necessary to subdivide any of the townships, the exteriors of which have been surveyed, you will also deduct the amount necessary to pay for such subdivisions, from the amount above mentioned;—
and further, should the contracts now in execution, exceed the estimates made of them, so as to require more than the $20,000—
ordered for them, such excess will be another item to be deducted from the $10.000 before mentioned. The remainder, after these deductions, will be applicable for new surveys, and to that amount you are authorized to contract for the surveys of the township exteriors, and subdivision of townships,—the whole not to exceed the amount of that remainder—of the lands East of the surveys heretofore contracted for by Henry Washington and Benj" F. Whitner, and marked A. G.
on the diagram of contracts which you sent to this Office being the lands due East of Townships 18 to 22 inclusive of Range 33, & those due East of Townships 23 to 27 inclusive of Range 31.

It is understood that there are a number of private claims in the region above mentioned, which must be accurately located & surveyed in connection with the public lands. Where they are based upon Spanish surveys, or surveys confirmed by the Courts, you will be careful that they are located in strict conformity with those surveys. --
Where there are no such surveys, they must be surveyed agreeably to the natural or well established calls of the claim, as shown by the original evidence of title. Whenever the limits of any claim are vague or indefinite, notice should be given by you to all the parties in interest, that, at a time & place, to be designated by you, an opportunity will be afforded them to produce evidence, showing the true location of such claims.
Where the claims are not founded on any written evidence of title, and are merely head rights or settlements, you will cause the locality of the original improvements to be identified by proper testimony, &
survey them in a square form, so as to place the improvement as nearly as practicable in the centre. But where you can select a tract, say a section or subdivisions of sections, that will give the area of the claim, and embrace the improvement, such tract should be selected, and designated as the survey of the claim. This will save expense, & at the same time prevent interference with the regular system of surveys.
On the Township maps in every instance, the sectional N°—name of claimant, -and N° of claim should be distinctly written in each survey,–and in the table of contents, which forms a part of the plat, there should be given the number of section—area of claim—name of claimant—N° of claim,-and date of Report.
The public lands in the Townships, whether full sections or fractional, will have their usual numbers. Where a private claim entirely covers a section, the usual number of the section thus covered will be entirely omitted. After all the public lands are thus designated, the private claims will be numbered in continuation, beginning with N° 37—in every instance.
In view of the location and survey of these private claims, and of the complaints of the surveys recently made, as mentioned in my letter of the 27th Ult” * I would earnestly impress upon you the necessity of employing such Deputies only, as are skilful & experienced in surveying,—of cool and discriminating judgment, & whose integrity is unimpeachable; and as a further precaution, you will, in every instance, before receiving the field notes from your Deputies, instead of the usual certificate at the close of the original field notes of the boundaries or subdivision of each township and fractional township require the following affidavit, to be signed & sworn to before some

person duly authorized to administer oaths; Wiz' I [Blank] Deputy Surveyor, do solemnly swear, that in pursuance of a contract dated the [Blank] day of [Blank] 18 [Blank] with W. Y. Conway, Surveyor General of the United States for the Territory of Florida, and in strict conformity to the laws of the U. States, and instructions of said Surveyor General, I have regularly surveyed [and subdivided into sections]." Township [or Fractional Township]* N°—of Range N"—in the Territory of Florida. And I do further solemnly swear, that the foregoing are the true and original field notes of the said survey [and subdivision]" executed as aforesaid.
A—B. Deputy Surveyor.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this [Blank day of [Blank]
C—D—Justice of the Peace.
(or other person duly qualified to administer oaths)
We solemnly swear that we carried the chain, and actually measured all the township (and subdivisional) lines, for which the field Notes have been returned as above E—F. and G.-H–Chainmen Subscribed and sworn to before me, this [Blank] day of [Blank]
18 [Blank] C–D–Justice of the Peace, &c.
I solemnly swear, that, as marker, I have faithfully and correctly marked all the lines and corners, the field notes of which have been returned as above.
J–K—Marker.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, this [Blank] day of [Blank]
18 [Blank] C–D–Justice of the Peace &c—
Where township exteriors, alone, are surveyed, the words in brackets will be omitted, of course, and so on, suiting the phraseology to the facts in the case.
In giving out contracts for the survey of these lands, I would call your attention particularly,–to the instructions from this Office of
5* August 1840," regulating the size of the contracts, & the time allowed for their completion,-to the latter part of my letter of 27"
Ult° * suggesting that the estimates of the amount of surveying in any contract, should exceed, rather than fall short of the true amount, —and to those of the 5" inst.” directing that the excess or deficiency in the surveys of townships, should be thrown upon the

North and West tiers of sections, as prescribed by the 3" section of the Act of 10" May 1800," & instructions of 9th Nov. 1821."
Should any “permits” have been granted, under the Armed occupation law, for any of the lands hereby authorized to be surveyed, you will, in noting such permits, be governed strictly by the instructions in my letter of 29th Ult."
No more than four dollars per mile can be allowed for these surveys, that being the maximum allowed by law;—and I have to request that you will use the utmost precaution to prevent your contracts exceeding the amount now available for surveys in your District.
Under all the circumstances above stated, it is highly important that the surveys of these lands should be well made, and in strict conformity with the laws; and that you may be fully informed on all points that can possibly arise in executing your duties, I would again call your attention to a rigid perusal of all the instructions from this Office.
As fast as protractions can be made from the field notes, copies of the plats should be sent to the Land Offices, and to this office,—those to this office should be accompanied by copies of the field notes, when they can be prepared in time to accompany them.
The accompanying diagram will show you the manner of numbering the public lands and private claims, & the form of tables on the plats, that the designations may be complete.”
I am very respy Your Ob*S*
THO. H. BLAKE Com.
</docbody>
<dochead>HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>NEW YORK Oct 21st 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have every assurance that the Schooner that I am having built with your permission for my service as agent will be afloat On Saturday week—I take pleasure in stating to You that some old ship carpenters with whom I am slightly acquainted. having examined her, say that they could not nor would not build such a vessel short of thirteen hundred dollars. as I am getting for 800$
I will enclose you a copy of a letter from Mr Douglas Dist Atty for Florida; to me dated Oct 6* * in reply to sundry letters, and

mine in answer to the same *—You will perceive by his letter that he is in a very low state of health, and I would suggest to You for Your better consideration and judgement whether it would no be beneficial to the General Government to have some one to assist M Douglass in the fall courts, -or whether You may not think it advisable to appoint a law agent as has been heretofore—If You should deem it advisable to do either, I know of no one who I could reccommend except Mr Phillip Fraser, who has refused to engage in the defence of trespassers against the United States He is a Pensylvanian and a gentleman of much legal ability—
I will beg to be permitted to state that I have not nor do not place as much confidence in Mr Douglass as I desire to do—but hope that I may be convinced hereafter that my suspicions have been groundless and that I have attached blame to him without cause or provocation—He is a gentleman of great legal attainments—
Mr Sibbald has informed me that he is going to send out one hundred men to cut Live oak in Florida—
The French agents have been in Charleston and as near as I can ascertain have entered into a contract—In regard to the Agents of the english Govt I am unable to state whether they have yet made a contract with Palmer and Ferris or with any one else—but I will assure you that there shall be no timber cut from the public land without due authority *
With due respect Your Obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for preservation of Timber &c in East Florida HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy Washington—
[Endorsed] Thistle 21 Oct Wants another lawyer engaged instead of Douglass—encloses a letter from him T. 193 Oct 24 Call
[Enclosure]
Thomas Douglas to Hezekiah L. Thistle Copy MACARIS Oct 5* 1843
SIR Your letters of the 25th of August and 4" Sept last" reached this place in due time, and would have received earlier attention, had it not been for the fact that when they arrived, I was on a sick bed, * Present, dated Oct. 20, 1843.

labouring under a most severe attack of congestive fever—I am now convalescent but very feeble & am advised by my phisician and friends to abstain as much as possible from attention to business—
In reply to Your letter of 25" of August I have to inform You that no appeal has been taken by Palmer & Ferris in the case of the timber condemned on board the Brig “Nimrod” and as to that of 4" of Sept, that indictments, and not suits are the proper course of proceedings in the cases You mention, against Palmer & Ferris for cutting timber on Public Land at Mosquito—
I can lay indictments again before the Grand Jury at the next t rm, and if Your witnesses should attend in time, the matter can receive attention, but I shall not feel justified in keeping the Grand Jury in session ten days as I did at the last term (after they shall be through with all their other business) waiting for You and all the other witnesses in these cases—
If however as You suggest “the evidence in these cases, will be the same as that which appeared before the court of Admiralty in April last at St Augustine” it is well worthy of consideration, that as we in that case recovered the timber itself which had been shipped with the accumulated value put on by its having been prepared for ship building and actually hauled and shipped, which was more than three times its value when standing, which You know is the penalty provided by law, whether we can recover again in another form of proceedings for the same thing—
If we can clearly prove that they cut other timber on the public land we can doubtless recover for that Respectfully Your Obt Servt
(Signed) THOS DOUGLAS U.S. Atty &c H. L. THISTLE esq Agent for the preservation of timber on public Land in East Florida
[Endorsed] Enclosed in Thistles of Oct 21
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surv' Gen. TALLAHASSEE Oct: 23. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to be in receipt of your communication of
10" inst.” covering Executive Order for the removal of the Office of the Surveyor General from Tallahassee to St Augustine.
The mode prescribed by you for the preservation of the Archives
& the general conduct of the removal shall be complied with.

I would suggest that one of the Government Steamers now in the employment of Brig. Gen. Worth be requested to come to Port Leon at such time as shall subsequently be fixed upon-Or, if deemed more advisable I will myself make the request at the instance of the Department, feeling well satisfied that the use of the Boat will be cheerfully accorded.
I shall write forthwith to Judge Bronson, who has kindly offered, if required, to procure suitable accommodations for my Office—As however some time will necessarily elapse before this can be arranged—
& we have entered upon & are unquestionably bound for the last Quarters rent of the Office at present occupied by us, I would respectfully suggest the 1st day of January next as the most fit & proper time to close the office here & take our departure for St Augustin—
This will give ample time for maturing & consummating all the required preliminaries. Due notice will be given of our departure
& for the term indicated thro’ the medium of the public press.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obt. Svt.
V. Y. CONWAYS G1
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 23 Oct 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G. Acks receipt of letter of 10 inst with order for removal of his office to St Augustine. Will comply with its directions, but thinks it better not to remove until the 1* Jany next. Jno Wilson Nov 4. 1843 Ans":
NOV. 7. 1843 58–
<dochead>WALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
Office of the Surv' Gen. TALLAHASSEE Oct: 23"'43
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 12" inst:" directing the Survey of “certain private claims” owned by Gen. D.L. Clinch, alledged to cover certain lands in Township 13, R. 21 S & E, in the Alachua Dist:
A Deputy shall be despatched to effect these Surveys so soon as one possessing the requisite qualifications can be procured to perform the service; this will be a matter of some difficulty as there are no Deputies at present engaged in that vicinity, and the compensation of Four dollars per mile is totally inadequate to induce any person to

undertake such surveys unless it should be in connection with a more extensive contract."
I avail myself of the present oppurtunity again to call your attention to the subject of the appointment of a Salaried officer, whose sole business shall be the Survey of private claims in East Florida.
The unavoidable delays which must frequently occur, in taking the testimony requisite to establish the locality of these claims, & to decide between the important conflicting interests, are of such a nature as to render it utterly impossible for an honest upright Deputy to undertake the Survey of them at any stipulated price p" mile.—
I am fully convinced that the only mode in which justice can be done, both to the Government & to the individuals interested, is to adopt the course now recommended—
The speedy adjustment of private claims, is rendered more imperative in consequence of the great influx of settlers under the provisions of the Armed-occupation-Act; Should any delay occur in the survey of these private claims an almost endless train of litigation must be the inevitable consequence. I therefore earnestly & respectfully recommend, that the subject be brought before Congress, & an appropriation for this service be pressingly solicited.
I have the honor to be Very Resp? Yr Obt Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY S G1
THO" H. BLAKE Esq Commissioner &c. &c. &c
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor. 23 Oct 1843 W. Y. Conway S.G. Ack"
receipt of letter of 12 inst, relative to survey of private claims of Gen. D. L. Clinch, & will send a surveyor there as soon as possible.
Again strongly recommends the app" of an agent whose business it shall be to attend to surveying of private claims, & asks that it be urged in Congress. Jno. Wilson Nov 4, 1843 Ans" Nov. 8, 1843."
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surv' Gen. TALLAHASSEE Oct 24" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 6" inst:” relative to proposed new surveys in the Peninsula of Florida—& in reply would state, that I coincide with the

views expressed in your letter concerning the locality of the proposed operations.
From the best information I have been enabled to obtain I am induced to believe that the lands in the vicinity of Mosquito Lagoon, Indian River & Saint Lucie sound are of an excellent quality, & from their situation on the Atlantic coast, are more likely to command a ready sale, than any others on the Peninsula.—
I would recommend for immediate survey the District lying between the contract of Henry Washington & the Atlantic, those lying between the basis parallels C.D. & E.F. east of the Range line dividing Ranges 35 & 36.—& the district embraced between the basis parallel E.F. & the parallel dividing Townships 33 & 34, & east of the Range line dividing Ranges 36 & 37.—The appropriation of
$10,000. it is estimated will be sufficient to cover the expense of surveying the Exterior Township lines of the above mentioned districts, & to admit of the subdivision of 30 Townships. The above described districts are laid down on the plats of the peninsula accompanying my annual report of this date.
I would also state that it is my wish to keep the force at present engaged in the Office constantly employed, & the work now in hand can be returned to Your Department by the time that any new Surveys which may be ordered can be executed in the field.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obt. Svt.
W. Y. CONWAY S G1
THO" H. BLAKE Esq Commissioner &c &c &c.
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Flor 24 Oct 1843 W.Y. Conway S.G. In reply to letter of 6 inst, mentions what public lands would probably sell most readily if surveyed & recommends their survey Jno. Wilson NOV 4.1843 Ans" NOV 7. 1843 *
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., XXXIII]</source>
<place-time>D. of S. W. 25th. Oct. 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HONORABLE DAVID HENSHAW. Secretary of the Navy.
SIR: I have the honor to transmit and to invite your attention to the accompanying copy of a letter dated yesterday addressed to this department by the Honorable D. Levy, the Delegate in Congress

from the Territory of Florida,” suggesting the expediency of the cooperation of the Navy Department in arresting fugitive slaves in the waters of that territory and in their transit on boats to the adjacent Islands."
I have the honor to be, Your obedient Servant, A. P. U.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>October 26th 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq. Sur Gen.' Tallahassee Florida.
SIR I enclose you a copy of a letter from the Hon: M Levy the Delegate from Florida," in which, you will perceive he expresses great solicitude that Gen Clements should be employed by you in conducting the surveys in your District. I could not say a word on the subject that might be regarded in the light of instructions, for that would be equally irreconcilable to law and propriety. The Surveyor General has the exclusive power to appoint his deputies, and it is necessaty to the responsibility he has to meet. I trust, however, I may be permitted to invite your particular attention to M Levy's letter, and to allude to the importance of harmonizing with the Representative of the Citizens of Florida, in a matter of such deep and abiding interest to them.
I have had repeated conversations with several distinguished gentlemen from Florida respecting Gen" Clements, all of whom have expressed the opinion, that the public interest in that quarter would be much promoted by giving him the desired employment."
Very respectfully Your Ob" Serv"
THO. H. BLAKE Commissioner P.S. M. Levy appears to be much alarmed by the reports which have reached us, of the inaccuracy of the surveys and nothing would have a better effect in allaying his fears, than the employment of some person like Gen" Clements, combining professional experience with other qualifications.” T. H. B.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., XXXIII]</source>
<place-time>D. Of S. W. 28th Oct. 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HONORABLE D. LEVY, Washington, SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of yesterday" respecting slave fugitives from Florida to the ajacent Islands and to inform you that, in compliance with your suggestion, the attention of the Navy department has been invited to the subject.”
I have the honor to be, Your Obedient Servant A. P. U.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE Nov 1* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON JAMES M PORTER Secretary of War SIR, Under the Armed Occupation Act of the 4* August 1842
Certain Settlers have entered at the Land Office at Newnansville, lands situated on Mullet and Egmont Keys and another small island”
lying between Boca Grand and Boca Copaira South of the entrace of Charlotte Harbour, -I have therefore to request that you will advise me whether those Keys or islands, or either of them is reserved for Military purposes—
I beg leave, also to request a reply to my letter of the 7” ultimo"
in relation to other islands along the Florida Coast, also settled upon, as this Office is now engaged in preparing information for Congress in relation thereto.”
With great respect Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THOMAS DOUGLAS</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book P—I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT November 8* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>THOS. DOUGLAS Esq. U.S. Atty. St. Augustine Fla.
In reply to yours of the 24" ult.” you are informed that this Dept.
is not possessed of any “evidence” that Morris R. Everitt has stolen

matter from the mail. On the 5" ult.” the Dept. received a communication from “James Taylor” of Savannah, Ga. informing that he had caused Everitt to be arrested and imprisoned for forgery and that he thought there was sufficient evidence of his having “robbed the mail.”
His letter was immediately sent to Laurence G. Alexander Esq. one of our Spl. Agts. at Augusta, to make further inquiries and, if practicable, ascertain the necessary facts. Since then, however, it appears that this Mr. Taylor refuses to communicate to the Agent any information which he possesses on the subject. The agent will again be directed to make the most diligent and perservering inquiries upon this subject, and to communicate to you the result.”
C.A.W. By S.B.B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, IX]</source>
<place-time>8 Nov. 1843 W. Y. CONWAY S.G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. Your communication of the 23" Ult.” acknowledging the receipt of mine of the 12" Ult: " directing the survey of certain private claims owned by Gen' D. L. Clinch, has been received. In accordance with the request contained in that communication, and reiterated in your annual report, I will present to Congress the expediency and propriety of the appointment of a Deputy, at an annual Salary, to survey, under your direction, all the private claims in Florida.</place-time>
<docbody>In addition to the instructions communicated in my letter of the
20" Ult * I would suggest, that in all cases where private claims interfere with the Sectional lines, the practice is, or should be, that an actual measurement must be made on the field, from the point where the lines of the private claims intersect the sectional lines, to the nearest section corners. This process will prevent an accumulation of errors in protracting, and enable the draughtsman to designate the points of error, if any exist.”
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.

<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO J. J. ABERT</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Recd.: ALS]</source>
St AUGUSTINE NOvr 10th '43
MY DEAR COLONEL. On examination of the accompanying Sketch you will perceive that by a cut thro' the little strip of Land at the Haul over (Fort Ann) which Seperates the Mosquito from Indian river lagoon, marked half a mile, but in fact Seven hundred & twenty yards, there will be an uninterrupted batteaux navigation counting from Bulows Southwardly of 270 miles; thence from the Southern extremity of S" Lucia a slight detour by the Everglades entering the Miami sea reach, near Key Biscayne, the Inland passage around the cape to Key West.
With the countenance and support of the Staff departments, and the consent of the General in Chief, I propose during the Winter to employ the Troops of this Garrison to execute this work which will afford, at small cost, imense facilities to the settlers now studding the Southern Atlantic coast of the Peninsula, tend to bring the public lands into market and it may be, in the future, greatly facilitate the transmission of military supplies in respect to time, expense and avoidance of hazardous navigation and the active energies of an enemy's cruisers.
The work, which it is not doubted will at some future period be executed, of a cut from Bulows Northwardly to unite Mosquito with Matanza, ten miles, is of magnitude—beyond the power of the military force and of such a nature as will require consideration and consent of Congress.
Once assured of the support of General Jesup and yourself and at expense, drawn from monies applicable to current service, not exceeding
$5,500, I think this work so useful to the public & so creditable to the military establishment, may be accomplished—say from the Q. M."
Department for regulation allowance to soldiers on extra duty 150
men for 120 day's about $2000—for Tools—scrapers Barrows &c
$2000—from the Topographical funds for the hire of a few civil employees to assist the Engineer, Survey's &c $1000—my officers and soldiers will be all the better for the employment.
Altho I propose to give Lieu" Blake the service of several competent young officers he will nevertheless probably need the aid of a Subaltern of his own corps with some practical knowledge also, I suppose, you could detach from Cap" Mackay's party—An Assistant Q M', who can be spared from this Post, will be employed to make disbursements and in conjunction with Lieu" Blake superintend the execution.
After consulting with General Jesup, who I doubt not is familiar with the locale, do me the favor to let me hear from you as early as

practicable, Meanwhile L' B—proceeds with a well appointed party to make reconnaisance on which to compute the labour & cost of which I feel assured the maximum has been stated.
I have written under whip & spur and therefore beg you to read charitably.”
Very truly yours, W. J WORTH
P.S. It is proposed to make the cut (or canal) not to exceed 8
feet at bottom and 12 or 15 f" at top—the principal labor is in removing the Mass of sand say an average of 5 or 7 feet—you then come to a base of Coquina (or cockle stone) generally called, when prepared for building Tapia which is cut almost as readily as hard clay. W.JW
TO COLONEL ABERT &c. &c.
[Endorsed] W–T.B.—1843 S" Augustine Nov 10th 1843 Gen.'
W. J. Worth Proposes employing the Troops of the Garrison at S*
Augustine during the Winter, in opening a passage between the Musquito, & Indian River lagoon, if funds can be furnished for the purpose. Tracings in Map Files, 962 Flat. Rec" Nov 24" 1843."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters: LS]</source>
<place-time>Navy Department November 10, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>Sir, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 25th ** and 27" ult” * and to state that instructions were transmitted to Comm° Stewart, commanding the Home squadron, to cooperate with his vessels in endeavoring to prevent the escape of fugitive slaves through the Territory of Florida; and to direct a vessel to stop at Tampico, to look after the interests of our citizens there.”
Enclosed are copies of the replies of Comm” Stewart.
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Yr. Obed" Serv"
DAVID HENSHAW
Hon: A. P. Upshur Secretary of State
[Endorsed] Rec" 11th Nov. Mr Hunter. David Henshaw, Sec. of Navy.

[Enclosure]
Charles Stewart to the Secretary of the Navy Copy. U.S. Ship Independence NEW YORK, Oct 31, 1843.
SIR, Your letter of the 27" inst,” with its accompanying copy of a letter from the Hon. D. Levy Delegate in Congress from the Territory of Florida, * on the subject of fugitive slaves has been received.
Although this object has in a great measure been met in the instructions, given to vessels of the “Home Squadron,” cruising on our Southern coast, and in the vicinity of the Bermudas and Bahama Islands, yet I shall in accordance with the commands of the Department, draw the attention of the Commanders more particularly to this subject in all future orders.
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Sir, Your obedient serv"
(Signed) CH*STEWART
TO THE HON. DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy Washington.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reservation File, Box 18 :LS]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT November 11" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The subject of the reservation from Sale of the islands referred to in your letter of the 7" ultimo *" has been referred to the Commanding General and other experienced officers for reports.
It may be doubted if the occupation of any island on the coast comes within the spirit of the Act of August 4*1842 for the armed occupation in Florida. Under our present limited knowledge of the importance of the Sites referred to in your letter as to their importance for military positions, light houses &c, it is deemed safest to continue for the present the reservation from Sale of all islands on the gulf, as well as the other Sites designated and pointed out in the reports of the

Adjutant General of the 20** and 28" of September last, * copies of which are herewith transmitted.
Very respectfully, Your Obt Serv"
J, M, PORTER
T. H. BLAKE Esqr Comm” of the Gen' Land Office.
[Endorsed] War Department November 11" 1843 Hon: J M. Porter Sec. In reply to the Comm” letter of the 7th Ult° encloses a letter from the Adjutant General relative to the reservation of lands in Florida for military purposes. &c. R. See letter to Col: Totten, 11
Aug 1847," answered Nov 20" 1843 " see letter to Hon D Levy Aug
15 1845—Wilson Nov 13. 1843 THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Judges, Marshals, Attys.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office STAUGUSTINE Nov 13* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith enclose my Semi annual account for the first half of the current year,” pursuant to the provision contained in N° 167 of the Act of Congress approved 18" May 1842 Entitled “an act making appropriations for the civil and diplomatic expenses of Government for the year 1842”.”—which would have been forwarded much earlier but for a Severe indisposition with which I was visited soon after the close of our last Spring circuit & which for a long period rendered me unable to attend to business.—I received no fees or emoluments during the period covered by this account; (nor are any payable to me) under the bankrupt act.—But it is proper for me to say that I consider myself entitled to compensation at the rate of $1500 per annum for attending to the Settlement of private land claims in Florida; yet owing to the extraordinary provision contained in No 173 of the same act & the part that no appropriation was made during the last Session of Congress for the payment of such compensation; I did not feel warranted in making a charge for it in this account. The ordinary income of my office exclusive of that com-

pensation as will readily be perceived is small and much even of that is swallowed up in the necessary expenses of the circuit. These land cases are very important and require in their defence constant vigilance & labour.
The Solicitor of the Treasury under date of the 25" of March *
last wrote me a letter by direction of the President containing instructions on the Subject a copy of which I also enclose. I have attended to the defence of these claims ever since the last appropriation making provision for such compensation was exhausted and have fully complied with those instructions relying upon the justice of the Government for remuneration therefor and trust that I shall not be disappointed."
With great respect I have the Honour to be Sir Your Obedient Servant THO DOUGLAS
HON, JOHN C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury City of Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Letter Tho"Douglas Dist Atty of Florida 13 Nov 1843
respecting emolument returns.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., XXXIII]</source>
<place-time>D. S. W. 14th November 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON” D LEVY Washington D. C
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 10" instant " together with the papers therein referred to relating to a robbery and murder supposed to have been recently committed in Florida by some negroes who have since sought refuge in the Island of New Providence; and requesting that a requisiton may be made by the President under the provisions of the treaty of
9" August, 1842, with great Britain,” with a view to their arrest and subsequent delivery to an agent from the United States duly authorized to receive them, The evidance merely, presumptionadduced in this case is not sufficient to warrant the interference of the Execution in the matter; and the step you propose to be taken would be entirely nugatory, unless the pursuing parties from the Territory

were at Nassau when, or soon after, the requisition should arrive prepaired to prove the identity of the fugitives and to exhibit before the British authorities, such evidence of their criminality as according to the laws of the place would justify their apprehension and commitment for trial if like crimes or offences had been there committed.
The accompanying printed paper explanatory of the views of this Department as to the mode of proceeding to be pursued on these occasions is enclosed for your information.”
I am Sir with great respect Y Ob" Sv"
A PUPSHUR
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE November 14* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HONORABLE DAVID LEVY Present.
SIR: I have the honor to return herewith the letter to you dated the 8" Ult° at Newnansville from D. Reinhardt Esq,” which was to day received from you, in which he says that he wishes “to Know if Patents will not issue to” him “for the Lands of his “two deceased Sons”—that “one died 8" June in his 19" year” that “his Lands were not surveyed at the time of his death”—that “the other was in his 32° Year, a part of his Lands were put into Cultivation in April,”
that his “last son had lived in Arkansas for the last 9 Years, and only got here in May” &c On examination I find that a permit N° 234 was issued under date
6" March 1843 in favor of John Q. A. Reinhardt and that a permit N°
540—was issued under date 6" June 1843, in favor of Marcus W.
Reinhardt.
These are presumed to be the two cases to which M. D. Reinhardt refers.—
Herewith I enclose for M" Reinhardt, a pamphlet containing certain instructions in regard to operations under the Armed Occupation Act of the 4” August 1842, and also the Act itself, see Pages 6 and 7
shewing the conditions and stipulations on which certain persons shall be entitled to “one quarter Section.”—
The 5* Section of Said Act, provides “That upon the Death of any settler before the end of the five years, or before the issuing of the patent, all his rights under this Act shall descend to his widow and heirs at law, if he leaves a widow, and to his heirs at law, if he leaves

none, to be held and divided by them according to the laws of Florida;
any previous sale or transfer of the same, or of any interest, legal or equitable, in the same, to the contrary notwithstanding.
And proof of his compliance with the conditions of this Act, up to the time of his death, shall be sufficient to entitle them to the patent.”
Now it will be seen that the law contemplates “a compliance” on the part of the Settler “with the conditions of this Act, up to the time of his death.”
M” Reinhardt's Sons were “single” men, and if they complied with the Conditions of the Act up to the time of their death, their rights will descend by virture of the Said Act to their heirs, to be held and divided by them according to the laws of Florida.
Let us see, what these conditions are, bearing in mind that the Conditions of the Act as applied to general cases, become qualified by the 5" Sec" of it, when particular cases arise like these in question, where the settler dies before the expiration of the first year from the date of his permit.
The Sons of M* Reinhardt “Single” men over 18 years of age, able to bear Arms, had permits issued to them as aforesaid, on the ground of their coming within the purview of the 1* Condition or Stipulation of the Act the 2" Condition or Stipulation requires, “that said settler shall reside in the Territory of Florida, South of said Township line, for five consecutive years, and to take his grant on any public land South of that township.”
Apply the 5* Section of the Act, and this condition is qualified so as to require his residence as indicated up to the time of his death.
The 3" Condition or Stipulation is “that said settler shall erect thereon a house fit for the habitation of man, and shall clear, enclose, and Cultivate at least five acres of Said land, and reside thereon for the space of four years next following the first year after the date of his permit, if he or she shall so long live.”
By the 5* Section of the Act, in connexion with the peculiar circumstances of the present case, the requirement of residence is done away with, but it is necessary that the residue of the condition as to the erection of a house, clearing, enclosing and cultivating at least five Acres should be so far respected as to require some proof that the deceased had complied with it or manifestly intended to so up to the time of his death.
The 4* Condition or stipulation is “That such settler shall within one year after the survey of said lands and the opening of the proper Office for the entry and sale of the same by the United States, prove before such tribunal, and in such manner and form as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the approval of the President, the fact that the Settlement has been com-

menced, and the particular quarter Section upon which it is located;
and also that such settler shall, within Six Months after the expiration of five years from the date of his permit, prove in like manner, the fact of continued residence and cultivation, as required in the second and third Conditions herein above prescribed: Whereupon, and not until then, a patent shall issue to Said Settler for such quarter Section.”—
Apply the 5* Section of the Act to this condition in view of the nature of these cases, and the requirement stands thus The Heirs of such settler, after shewing that they are such by evidence Satisfactory to the Register & Receiver (the “tribunal” appointed to adjudicate in the premises) must shew within a year after the survey of the lands & opening of the Office “the fact that the settlement has been commenced, and the particular quarter Section upon which it is located” and they must “within six months after the expiration of five years from the Date of his permit prove, in like manner, the fact of Continued residence” up to his death and manifest intentions up to that time to comply with the Other conditions “as required in the Second and third conditions herein above prescribed.”
If M Reinhardt can establish to the satisfaction of the Register
& Receiver, that in the claims of his two Sons, the Conditions of the Act have been complied with, as explained and applied in the foregoing to these particular cases, then the rights of the deceased will descend to their Heirs, & patents will issue accordingly, otherwise not With great respect Your Obt Servant THO. H. BLAKE Commissioner HEZEKIAH L. THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:LS]</source>
<place-time>NEW YORK November 15th 1843</place-time>
SIR I enclose to You a report of my proceedings in East Florida”—
embracing likewise a description of the great evil existing, in consequence of the numerous land claims which are unlocated and not surveyed.—together with my views as to the means necessary to remedy the same—
I have not reported as extensively as I desired to have done not having been fully authorised to procure such documents as would be required to enable me to do so, -and in fact all the knowledge that I am in possession of has been obtained at my individual expense-
I have not furnished You with the full details of Sibbalds case as I
could not do so without incurring expenses for which I should be

bound to pay individually—and as Mr Sibbald has already expressed to me that He possessed much influence, I may expect another formidable enemy in the field"—
With due respect I remain Your Obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for protection of Live oak
& other timber on Public Land in East Florida—
HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Thistle Nov 15/43 General report &c Quercus verens T
244 NOV 27. Call** THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO SECRETARY
</docbody>
<dochead>DUVAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 9]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 16" Nov. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>THOMAS H. DUVAL Esq. Secy of Florida Tallahassee SIR, I received, to-day, your letter of the 4" inst." inclosing an extract of yours to the First Auditor of the 23" July.”
That letter, as I understand, was not referred to me, because its explanations were required in the Auditor's Office, and no action could be based upon it here, the appropriation being absorbed.
This Department is prohibited by law from entering into any contract, except under a law authorising the same, or under an appropriation adequate to its fulfilment.
Of the appropriation made for pay and milage of the members of the Territorial Legislature, pay of its Officers, stationery, fuel, printing, and all other incidental and miscellaneous objects, being
$27.125—the sum of $2.945.42 was charged for stationary alone.
Remarks upon such a charge are superfluous—nor is it necessary for me to suggest the appropriate remedy for such extravagence.
The duty of carefully and economically superintending the disbursement of the funds appropriated by Congress for Territorial expenses, ought to devolve on the officers appointed and paid by the United States to protect the public interest. It is impossible for me to undertake to purchase stationery for the Territorial Legislature of Floridaor to prescribe the details under which the members may be supplied.
But I can perceive no difficulty in establishing by the officers appointed by the United States for this and other purposes, such regulations in regard to Territorial disbursements, as will effectual discourage such

exorbitant claim—because no claim becomes a charge upon the appropriation until it has been adopted by those officers, and received their express sanction."
</docbody>
<dochead>I am &c J. C. SPENCER Secy of the Treasury THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, IX.]</source>
<place-time>Nov: 17, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Surveyor General Tallahasse, Florida SIR. I have had the pleasure of receiving your letter of the 9"
inst:" which goes so far to inspire the belief, that the charges of fraud recently made against some of the surveys in your district, will turn out to be gratuitous.
They were made out in duplicate, one set sent to the Hon: M*
Levy, and the other to this Office, and as the Office was still suffering great annoyance from one or two similar occurences in other districts, much magnified by a tardiness in having them corrected, I felt alive to the responsibility of prompt action.
Should M. Reid sustain himself, as you seem to anticipate, this office will certainly not be backward in doing him justice, although it can perceive no cause to regret the course it has pursued. It is of infinite importance to a country like Florida, in the act of being settled, to have her surveys clear and undoubted, free from any just cause of reproach & if possible, above suspicion.”
With great resp“Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Commr.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO W. T. STOCKTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT November 18*1843.</place-time>
<docbody>CAPT" W.T. STOCKTON, Quincy, Florida.
SIR. In answer to your letter of the 14: instant" I transmit herewith a report of the Officer in charge of the Ordnance Bureau, by which it appears the Territory of Florida has already received more than

her due proportion of arms and equipment under the laws and provisions for arming the whole body of militia.
The late war in Florida may justify the great issues heretofore made, but under existing circumstances justice to other parts of the country will not authorize a further advance of arms and equipments at this time.
J. M. P.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE Nov 20th 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER OF THE LAND OFFICE at Newnansville E Florida.
SIR: The Report accompanying your letter of the 22"August last,"
forwarded in accordance with my directions of the 2" of the same month," purporting to shew the locations under the Armed occupation Act, on the Keys or islands along the Florida Coast, having been examined at this Office, it is found that the islands on which the lands embraced by Permits N** 346, 507,761, 791, 794, and 796 are not situated in the Gulf, and consequently that the locations are not interdicted.
You will please advise the Settlers to that effect.
The Secretary of War in a letter dated the 11" ins" states,” that
“it is deemed safest to continue for the present the reservation from Sale of all islands in the Gulf”—The lands embraced by Permits N”
25, 142, 188,203, 347, 412,483, 537, 538, 727, 728, 734, 832, 858, 922, 923, 934, 935, and 936, being on islands so situated the permits must be annulled.
I am Sir Very Respy Your Obedt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner THOMAS H. 
</docbody>
<dochead>BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE November 22° 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: JAMES M. PORTER Secy of War.
SIR: I have the honor to enclose a Copy of a letter received at this Office from General Worth addressed to the Register of the Land

Office at S*Augustine, dated the 11" Ultimo,” relative to the evacuation of the Military Post at Pilatka, and have to request your advice as to whether that Post shall be considered as abandoned, and from what time.
General Worth’s letter would be considered as conclusive upon this subject, were it not for the letter of the adjutant General of the 20"
Sept 1842," enclosed in yours of the 11" ins',” in which that Post is spoken of as a Military Reserve.
It is unnecessary to add that your decision is important to this Office, as it will enable it to decide conclusively respecting locations under the Armed Occupation law within two miles of that post."
I am Sir with great respect Your Obt Serv"
THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., XXXIII]</source>
<place-time>D. S. W. 23d Novr 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>ON” D. LEVY Washington, D.C.
D. SIR, An application has been made to the British Government, through M. Fox" in relation to the negroes who are supposed to have been concerned in the murder of M" Gayron in September last, and a favorable answer has been received. If you can make it convenient to call at this Department in the course of today these papers will be shown to you, and such further steps taken in the matter as may be deemed expedient.”
I am, Sir, respectfully, Y. O. S.
A. P. U.
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON Nov 23. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR From your letter of yesterday" relative to the use of Light wood in Florida, I infer that you understood me as designing to ask of the dept “grant of leave to take wood from the public lands”.

My object was only to inquire learn if the duties of the Agent of the Department were understood to extend to the protection of Light wood, and whether he was acting within the scope of his contemplated authority, in instituting prosecutions against the citizens of the country for removing that description of waste wood from public lands.
I was desirous to learn if in the employment of an agent in Florida, the views of the Department extended beyond the protection of timber suitable for naval purposes.
It is proper for me to mention that many prosecutions have been instituted against constituents of mine for alledged trespasses of this kind, and the vexatiousness to the public of the course pursued upon that subject has been so great as to elicit complaint & formal presentments of grand juries. I desired therefore to invite your attention to the matter, as it might be that the Agent was going beyond the intention of the Department; and if so, the necessity of legislation which might otherwise be asked for would be avoided, by specific instructions.
I have the honor to be Respectfy Your Obt St D. LEVY
HON DAVID HENSHAW Secy of the Navy
[Endorsed] Levy Nov 23 wishes to know whether the Agent is to protect other timber than that for shipping Ack & send him a copy of Thistles instructions—do so a day or two after Answd within wrote Dec 4 * L. 269 Nov. 27—Call THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO JOSEPH B. BROWNE
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., xxxIII 21]</source>
<place-time>D. S. W. 25th Novem” 1843</place-time>
JOSEPH B. BROWNE, Esq. Marshal U. S. for the So Dist of Florida.
Key West SIR. Representations having been recently received at this Department from which it appeared that a robbery and murder were perpetrated in Septem" last, in the Territory of Florida by a gang of negroes who have since taken refuge at Nassau in the Island of New Providence, within British jurisdiction an application was made to Her Britannic Majesty's Government, through her diplomatic representative in Washington for the surrender of the fugitives in question” upon the exebition to the proper British Colonial authorities by the pursuing parties of such evidence as might be deemed sufficient

under the provisions of the 10" article of the treaty of Washington *
to justify the arrest and commitment of the Negroes, to the Marshal of the Southern District of Florida, to one of his deputies, or to any other individual duly authorized to receive them, for Convayance to the United States for trial. A Suggestion was, at the same time, made to M* Fox that any communication which he might address to the British authorities of New Providence on the subject, would, if sent to this Department, be forward to the person who should be deputed to reclaim the fugitives, for delivery upon his arrivil at Nassau. A
copy of M." Fox's answer is herewith enclosed,” together with the packet therein referred to, for His Excellency the Governor of the Bahama Islands. I am directed by the President to authorize and request you to take all proper steps for reclaiming and bringing back to the United States the individuals supposed to have been concerned in the robery and murder above mentioned. For this purpose it will be messary to repair to Nassau, with as little delay as possible either in person or by Deputy prepared to prove the identity of the fugitives in question, and to exhibit such evidence of their criminalty as shall be deemed sufficient to meet the requirements of the treaty To enable you so far as this Department is possessed of the means of doing so, to judge as to the nature and form of testimony to be adduced before the British authorities I transmit to you a printed copy of the British Act giving effect to the 10" Article of the recent treaty, together with a copy of a printed paper prepared at this Department.—You will of course confer freely with Mr Macrae the District attorny of the U States at Key West on the subject of this letter; and in case any doubts should arise in your mind as to the Course proper to be pursued in the prosecution of this matter, you will advise with him concerning it. It would be well to communicate to the Governor of Florida the substance of this and to request his cooperation, as well as that of the other civil authorities of the Territory so far as it may be desirable, in contributing to effect the object in view.”
I am sir with great Respect, Your Obedient Servant, -
A. P. U

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA Report Book, 4 *]</source>
<place-time>War Department OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS November 25 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON. J. M. PORTER Secretary of War SIR, Since my last annual report from this office, there have been removed from Florida to the Indian Territory two hundred and twelve Indians, who are now subsisting at a daily expense of 7.68%$.
It has happily ceased to be a matter of so much interest as it lately was, how many or how few have been removed from the Indian fastnesses in Florida. The war which has so long harrassed the United States is at an end. Our officers and soldiers, though their presence in our southern territory is judicious, if not necessary, are no longer exposed to the hardships of a service that bore upon them with great severity. The drain upon the Treasury is closed.
Our citizens can sleep in peace and security. A few Indians only remain in Florida producing no inconvenience by their presence, the riddance from which is more desirable on account of the ultimate advantage to themselves, that, must grow out of their removal west, than from any other reason *
</docbody>
<dochead>AUGUSTUS W. WALKER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Collector’s Office ST: AUGUSTINE November 25th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR: The third Section of the act, entitled: “An act in addition to the act for the gradual improvement of the Navy of the United States”, approved March 2" 1833.” “makes it the duty of all collectors in the Territory of Florida, etc before allowing a clearance to any vessel laden in whole or in part with live oak timber, to ascertain satisfactorily that such timber was cut from private lands, or, if from public ones by the consent of the Navy Department, and it also makes it the duty of all officers of the Customs to cause prosecutions, etc”—Three vessels, I am informed, are now or have lately been at New Smyrna, * An extract from the Annual Report.

Musquito Inlet, in this district and seventy miles south of this place, where there are but very few inhabitants and where live oak timber has been lately very extensively cut, one, at least, of these vessels, the Schooner Louisiana, Charles Marsh master, is, I know, chartered by Mess" Palmer and Ferris, and loading with live oak, the master having entered here, and presented me, but declined leaving, the copy of a letter, certified by a public notary, and purporting to be signed by some gentleman in the construction bureau, with whose name I am not acquainted; allowing Mess" Palmer and Ferris to take live oak cut from the public lands, and account for said live oak to the Department, or words to that effect.—Considering all these circumstances, the large amount of property at stake, together with the fact that I have received no communication from the Department, and that M* Thistle the live oak agent, is absent from the Territory, I
concluded, on consulting with the District attorney, to send an agent to New Smyrna, to ascertain if any live oak timber cut from the public lands was being taken on board of any vessel loading at that place, and if such was found to be the case, to detain such vessel until I
can receive instructions from the Department, and to effect that purpose seise, if necessary, any vessel so loaded persisting in departing without a clearance. Is so doing I should say, that I have been partly influenced with regard to the Schooner Louisiana, by my doubts relating to the copy of letter presented to me. I hope, Sir, that in all these proceedings I may meet with your approbation, and trust you will favor me with such instructions as you shall deem necessary, that I may govern my conduct accordingly.” I have the honor to be, Sir With great respect Your obedient Servant A. W. WALKER Collector HONORABLE DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Walker (collector) Nov 25 refer to Bureau Con" for a report. Respectfully referred to Bureau of Construction for report—Navy Dept Dec 7" see ans" A. W. Walker, Collector, St:
Augustine November 25” 1843 Relating to vessels loading with live oak at New Smyrna and appointment of agent Answered at B–Dec
7th W 47 Dec 7. Call

</docbody>
<dochead>SECRETARY DUVAL TO THOMAS L. SMITH</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Ans. to Enquiries and Resol. of Cong.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Secretary's Office TALLAHASSEE Nov 27* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, At the last Session of the Legislative Council, two new Counties were created in this Territory, viz, Wakulla, in Middle, and Hernando in East Florida, and the election of two additional members of the Legislature provided for.
This fact was inadvertently overlooked, when the estimate of expenses for the year ending 30 June 1845, was prepared and forwarded by me on the 13" September last,” and I beg leave now to correct this omission, by enclosing to you the following estimate,” in addition to that already sent. As the Act, creating these Counties, was passed subsequent to that of Congress, making appropriations for the Civil and diplomatic expenses of Government, for the fiscal year ending
30" June 1844, the pay and mileage of the two additional members, at the approaching session of our Legislative Council, are altogether unprovided for.
Is there any mode by which provision can be made to meet this unforseen contingency?
The account of Edward R. Wellford Esq, late private Secretary to Gov. Call, has been sent to me by the Hon: David Levy, Delegate from Florida, in whose hands the same was placed, with a request that I would include it in the estimate, which I have done, and enclose herewith in addition to the above.
I am, Very Respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida Hon: T L. SMITH Register Treasury Dep’t
[Endorsed] Tho" H. Duval Secy of Florida asking for additional appropriation—Respectfully referred to the Secretary of the Treasury Registers Office 8 Dec. 1843 T L Smith This should be preserved and Sent to the Committee of Ways & Means, with others the pay of the members for the present session might be added to that for the private Secretary and he should furnish an estimate—Write him to that effect 34

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Lets. to SG, Ix]</source>
<place-time>Nov. 30, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY S.G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. The Navy Department has requested me to cause a survey to be made, “between the private claims and government lands, commencing at Lindsay Todd's tract on Spruce Creek, Mosquito County, Florida, and extending to that of John Andrews, on Indian River, in the same County, the whole distance of which is represented to be twenty five miles and forty-five chains, in order that the Agent for the protection of Live Oak in that Territory, may know what lands are public and what are private.””
This is part of the land ordered to be Surveyed by my instructions of the 20" Ult°,” the contracts for which, you advised me on the
4" inst,” would not be given out, till you could ascertain with some degree of certainty, how much of the $10,000 now applicable to surveys in your District, would remain after settling present liabilities.
There is no doubt but that sufficient will remain, to execute the Surveys above mentioned, and as it is highly important, that the public lands should be designated in that region, to enable the Agent for the protection of Live Oak, to make the necessary reservations of timbered land, I have to request, that you will immediately contract for the Survey of the lands embraced within the request of the Navy Department before quoted, in accordance with the iustructions from this Office of the 20" Ult° The lands between Washington's contract, marked “A”, and the Atlantic, being Towns: 18 to 22 incl. of Ranges 34 to 38 inclusive, would, from the information in this Office, embrace all that is desired by the Navy Department. It may be necessary, however, to survey Towns 16. of Ranges 33 & 34 to find
“Lindsay Todd's tract on Spruce Creek”, and also to go further South then Town. 22, on Indian River, to find that of “John Andrews”, and if so, you will, of course, have such Surveys made. You will take all the usual and necessary measures, to ascertain what private claims are in this region, and avail yourself of the information that may be obtained from the Archives in S*Augustine, for this purpose, and require that all those claims shall be located in accordance with the instructions above mentioned. Wherever there is one or more private

claims in a Township, such Township should be subdivided, but it will not be necessary for the present object, to subdivide those townships in which there are no private claims. The instructions of the 20th Ult” will govern you in making these Surveys, locating the private claims, and in the price that will be allowed for the work. Should it be found necessary to extend the surveys further North than township 16, or much further South than township 22, to comply with the request of the Navy Dept: you will advise this office of the fact, before contracting for such extensions.”
Very respectfully Your Ob'. S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF THE TERRITORY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 27 Cong., 3 sess:DS]</source>
<place-time>[November, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.
The Memorial of the undersigned Citizens of the United States and inhabitants of the Territory of Florida, respectfully represents;
That your memorialists, upon the election of David Levy as Delegate to the last Congress, fully believing then, as they do now, that the said David Levy was, and is an Alien, and therefore not eligible to a seat in your honorable body, or entitled to represent Citizens of the United States; addressed a respectful protest of remonstrance against his admission into Congress as their Delegate. This memorial was referred to the committee on Elections, and a mass of testimony,–
much of it irrelevant, and taken ex parte by the said David Levy without notice to the remonstrants, and in direct violation of the rule adopted by the committee prescribing the mode in which testimony should be taken in the case, was received and printed.
Upon this testimony,–a considerable portion of which as your memorialists are thoroughly convinced, was introduced for no other purpose, than to mystify an otherwise plain and clear case, -
conflicting reports were made by different portions of the committee.
Owing to a great press of important business in the House, or from some other cause, no definite action upon the question of M* Levy's Alienage was had.
This question so deeply involving the inherent and inalienable political rights and privileges of your memorialists, they respectfully

pray, may be again taken up by your honorable body and definitively settled. They cannot doubt that the testimony already taken in the case, pertinent to, and bearing upon the point at issue, will, if divested of the great accumulation of irrelevant matter which encumbers it, amply sustain them in their remonstrance.
M. David Levy claims to be a Citizen of the U. States in right of his father Moses E. Levy; upon the assumed ground, that the said Moses E. Levy was in Florida at the time of the final transfer and surrender of the Floridas to the Government of the United States—
to wit, on the 17" day of July 1821—and thus became a citizen, in virtue of the Treaty of Cession.—Your memorialists confidently take the opposing ground, in which they feel that they are indisputably borne out by the testimony already adduced,—and which they are prepared to strengthen, if need be, by other and conclusive documentary evidence,—that the said Moses E. Levy was in the city of Charleston State of South Carolina, on the 17" day of July
1821. and did not arrive in Florida,—for the first time—until the 25th day of that Month.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
S“AUGUSTINE E Florida, November 1843.
John Carreras Joseph L. Smith George Gianople Bernardo Segui-Sen"
James Hurlbert Jo” Hernandez John C. Cleland Elias Wallen F. C. Humphreys G. Humphreys O. M. Dorman. Francis Dustan A M Mitchel D. W. Whitehurst M.D.
Cha” E. O'Sullivan Lyman Southwick F. Bridier Geo: T. Zehnbaun David R. Dunham Henry Wharton S. F. Jones
[Endorsed] Florida—inhabs. of—relative to David Levy. Memorial of Inhabitants of the Territory of Florida as to the election of David Levy—as a delegate from Florida & asking that the question may be again taken up and definitely settled Dec. 20. 1843 "Ordered to lie on the table J. R. Ingersoll 3 to lie

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN G. GAMBLE TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE December 5* 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>ABEL PUPSHUR Esqr DEAR SIR Your esteemed favor of 15* U1”" was duly received.
Our old friend Gen' Mercer will leave this tomorrow on a visit, to the Seat of Government in Texas, on private business.
You will oblige me, & serve the Country too, if you will be so good as to use your Official authority to obtain from Carraccasin Venezuela, some of the seed of the Tobacco called “Warinas.” A hint to the consul from your department would, doubtless, be promptly responded to.
I feel a confidence that this Territory can produce as good Tobacco as any part of the World. I am like many others, cultivating the Cuba Tobacco, which is selling for 25 to 30 cents per pound: and I
am desirous of trying the Carraccas seed. A few ounces, which might be sent through the mail, will be most thankfully accepted, & its future produce will be distributed by Yours Very sincerely JOHN G. GAMBLE
[Addressed] Honble A P Upshur Sect” of State Washington [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flor. Dec 5 free
[Endorsed] Let a letter be written to the consul requesting his attention to this. Rec" 13 Dec. J. G. Gamble Mr Chew Mr Dickins DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets from Cong.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON Dec 10, 1843</place-time>
SIR I beg leave respectfully to enquire if the Territory of Florida has claimed and received any part of the proceeds of public lands, under the distribution act, * and if so, through what officer of that Terry. its payment was demanded, and to whom the amount was paid.”
I have the honor to be Resp” Yr Obt St D. LEVY
HON JOHN. C. SPENCER Secy of the Treasury
[Endorsed] House of Rep 10 Dec 1843 Hon D. Levy Enquires if the Territory of Florida has claimed & received any portion of the proceeds of the public lands under the distribution act, & if so through

what officer, & to whom was payment made. Referred by Secy of Treas' ans" Dec 15/43* L. File L. 170 Dec 13/43 Comm G. L. Off Decr 13. 1843 Respy referred to Comss' Genl Land Office for report 1842, Dec 20. Paid to George K. Walker agent of the territory of Florida pursuant to authority from Richard K. Call Governor of Said Territory $1545.96
</docbody>
<dochead>SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets from Execs. of Terrs.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Secretary’s Office TALLAHASSEE Dec 10” 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, A sincere desire to see the expenses of our Territorial Government, limited to what was reasonable and proper, induced me to address you on the 4” ultimo," and make a suggestion with regard to the future purchase of Stationery for the use of the Legislative Council.
Your reply" contained a reflection upon the conduct of the Executive officers of the Territory, which, permit me to Say, I do not think is deserved. As an act of justice to Gov. Call, I will state that he vetoed the appropriation Bill, as it was first passed at the last Session of the Legislative Council, solely on the ground of its extravagance, and only signed it, after the amount allowed for Stationery and printing, had been stricken out.
Speaking of the officers appointed by the United States, and alluding, I presume, to the Governor & Secretary, you are pleased to remark in the conclusion of your letter, that “no claim becomes a charge upon the appropriation, until it has been adopted by those officers, and received their express Sanction”—To this, so far as it was intended to apply to the Secretary, I be leave to reply, that among the duties of that officer, as prescribed by the various acts of Congress, I know of none which require or authorize him, either to give or withhold his sanction to any item of the appropriations made by the authority of the Territorial Legislature. Nor do I know, in what way you consider his sanction as expressed, unless the giving of the usual certificate, under the Seal of the Territory, for a claim allowed by an Act of the Legislative Council, is regarded as such. If this be so, I
can only Say, that under such circumstances, I have never supposed that the Secretary had a right to withhold his certificate; for whether it is given or not, every such claim, under the provisions of the Act of Congress, approved August 29*1842," must be audited and settled

by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department, and who, in the exercise of their discretion, may pay them or not, as they think proper.
If the Department, however, is of opinion, that my certificate, for any claim allowed by the Legislative Council, is such a Sanction of that claim, as to render it a charge upon the appropriation, and will instruct me to withhold it, if, in my opinion, such claim is extravagant, I will, for the future, take care to act under such instruction.
I am not only willing, but anxious, so far as is consistent with my powers as Secretary of this Territory, to aid in correcting the extravagance of its Legislature; but I confess that I am ignorant of any mode by which I can legally do so.
I am, respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida HON: JNO. C. SPENCER Sec'y of the Treasury
[Endorsed] T H. Duval Secretary of Florida 10 Dec 1843 As to issue of Territorial certificates Ans” 21 Dec" " Mr Ela * I believe wrote the letter to which this a reply. I [MS. illegible] believe it was not quite guarded enough-Will he prepare an explanatory one?
F. Dec 20/43 Ela WILLIAM J. 
<dochead>WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 537:ALS"]</source>

are ample; and I should apprehend no doubt in receiving the cordial aid of the Chief of the Staff Departments in the enterprise, and it gives me pleasure to add that the state of the discipline will readily admit of the withdrawal of the troops, for a season, from their more immediate professional duties.—
The only impediment, permission being obtained is the cost, say $1000 (see first item in the estimate, somewhat overated I think,)
of a quantity of plank for revetting a portion of the embankment:
and this is regretted as, on many considerations it appears desirable to execute the work by means of funds applicable to general service and without reference of the subject to Congress—requesting you to submit the subject to the consideration of the General in Chief &
favor me with an early reply I have the honor to be, Yr Obt Serv't W. J WORTH Brig. Gen' Comg TO/GENERAL JONES Adj. General U.S. Army
[Endorsed] 537 Head Quarters 9" Mil Dept: St Augustine. Fa'
December 12" 1843. W. J. Worth Brig Gen' Commanding. Forwarding the report and Map of a Survey of the Haulover recently executed by Lt Blake Top Engineers. An important subject–Submitted to the General in-Chief, & Respectfully recommended for favorable consideration—Dec 23* R. Jones A.G. Decem: 23. 1843
Copies of this paper & enclosure furnished in compliance with resolution of Senate of Jan. 11. 1844,”—16 Jan. 44 I am under the impression General Jones placed these papers in my hands when conversing upon the subject to which they refer—As they have official endorsement I return them to the general. W.JW.
[Enclosure:ALS]
Jacob E. Blake to William J. Worth ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. December 11th. 1843.
GENERAL; In obedience to your instructions of the 10th. Ultimo *
I have the honor to report that I left this place on the 15th. with a Sergeant and twelve men of the 8th Infantry, arrived at the Haulover on the afternoon of the 19th. and immediately commenced the survey of the neck of land dividing Indian River and Mosquito South Lagoon with a view to determine the practicability of cutting a canal to connect the waters of the two streams, and thus remove the great source of toil and difficulty experienced by all settlers and others passing from North to South by the inland route from Smyrna to the mouth of Indian River—-

By an inspection of the Map of Florida it will be seen that there is a direct inland route by water from the mouth of Mosquito River three miles from Smyrna, running parallel to the Atlantic Ocean by means of Mosquito and Indian Rivers with the exception of a narrow neck of land separating the two at a point designated on the Map as Fort Ann. At this point, for years previous to the war, Indians, traders and others were compelled to haul over their canoes, goods and supplies from one stream to the other, when an interupted navigation again presents itself running, in seasons of high water almost entirely to Key Biscayne. During the progress of the war lately brought to a close a large force of regulars and militia varying from

policy of removing this obstruction, and rendering the navigation for small vessels open and uninterupted from the head of Bulow's creek falling at a distance of 12 miles into Halifax river, thence to Smyrna

The remaining distance 300 yds is composed entirely of white sand; in digging down to the level of the water in the two streams the sand mixed up with water partakes of the character of quicksand, the excavation filling up almost as soon as made, and the banks constantly liable to fall in. In order to guard against such fatal results, it is proposed to box in the entire distance thro’ the quick sand by driving piles 8 inches square & 12 feet in length, at a distance of 12 feet apart, revetting the sides with two inch plank, and to remove every possibility of the canal filling up either by the falling in of its banks or by the pressure of the sand & water at the sides of the canal forcing up the sand from the bottom it is also contemplated to cover the bottom with two inch plank in such a manner as to render the whole free from all liability to fill up & the canal at all times passable. The proposed plan of construction in detail of this part of the work is shown in the section through C. D., a longitudinal
& transverse section of which is given. For the determination of the nature of the soil and material through which the canal is designed to pass, several shafts were sunk exhibited on the “Profile of the Ground” across the Peninsula; 100 yds through the marsh or Lagoon of the 300 considered as quick-sand is on the same level as the water of Mosquito river, a mere excavation four feet deep may be here all that is necessary, although I have estimated with a view of revetting the sides and covering the bottom of the whole 300 yds with two-inch plank. It will be seen from an inspection of the map that from the Eastern termination of the canal in Mosquito river to the channel of the river there is a distance of about 300 yds gradually deepening from the shore to 2 feet in depth at the edge of the channel;
the mere deepening of this part of the work will not require much labor, although it will, unless revetted, be at all times liable to fill up; nevertheless, it is believed, that the constant passage of boats, and the nature of the bottom, grass & soft mud with patches of sand, together with the current formed by the difference of level in the water of the two streams, depending entirely upon the nature &
direction of the winds, will with slight difficulty keep open a passage sufficient for boats drawing from 2 to 3 feet water.
It is now proposed to open this canal by such a force as can be spared for the purpose, taken from the troops stationed at St. Francis Barracks, and with the assistance of such means as are at the disposal of the Quarter masters and Commissary Departments at this station, provided the requisite authority can be obtained for such a disposition of the troops—The following estimate of expense of construction is based upon this supposition.

Estimate of Cost of Material and expense of construction.
S. feet.
175 Piles 8’’ x 8’’, & 12 feet long. 21. 700
2 Inch plank. 32.400 Scantling 6’ x 6' & 6' long 1.500
Mud Sills 6’ x 6' & 12 feet long 6.000
1 Inch Plank. 2. 100 63.000 54
at $20 a thousand $1260
50 Kegs four inch spikes at $6 300
15 cts per diem for 125 men for 60 days 1125 Boats, scows, barrows, carts & tools 1000
Contingencies 500
$4185
It is estimated that with the application of such a force with the use of one of the public transports now in service in Florida for the conveyance of supplies and materials, with such boats and teams disposable for the purpose the work could be completed in two months after breaking ground, and at the cost of about $4000—Without such assistance owing to the necessity for the employment of a suitable vessel, the large force requisite to transport the supplies and materials to the Haulover, the difficulty and expense of hiring the requisite teams, the cost of purchasing tools and the pay of a large force of mechanics and laborers for perhaps a much longer period, the canal could not be constructed at an expense of less than $10,000–
Lieuts. Morris and Jourdan of the 8th. Infantry, together with M. F. Humphreys of St. Augustine, who volunteered his services assisted me in the survey.”
All of which is respectfully submitted—
I have the honor to be General: with great respect: Your obdt. Svt.
J. EDM." BLAKE 1st. Lieut. Topog Eng"
BRIG GENL. W. J. WORTH: Comm” 9th. Dept. St. Augustine E.F.
[Endorsed] Report of the Survey of the Haulover at Fort Ann.
537. Genl Worth 23* Decem: 1843 Respectfully Submitted—Dec"
23" R. Jones A. G.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO THOMAS F. HUNT</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 35]</source>
<place-time>December 12th, 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>LIEUT: COLONEL T. F. HUNT, Deputy Quarter Master Gen. Saint Augustine, Florida.
SIR,-I have recommended that the account paid by Captain Sibley on your order to the owners of the Steamer Richmond for the transportation of the Mail from Savannah to Palatka be allowed.
As there is however no appropriation to which it can be charged except that of Army Contingencies, it will have to be acted on by the Secretary of War, for which purpose full explanations of all the circumstances rendering the expenditure necessary will have to be produced, and which you are requested to furnish. So long as there was a general appropriation for preventing and suppressing Indian Hostilities to which expenditures of this kind could be charged there was no necessity for a reference to the Secretary, but as that appropriation is exhausted, there is no other appropriation applicable except the one stated.”
(Signed) TH: S. JESUP. Quarter Master General.
</docbody>
<dochead>CHANDLER S. EMERY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Recd.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE Dec 14* 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The schooner Ellen, between 40 and 50 tons burthen, Reuben Tripp Jr. master, cleared at this port sometime in the month of July last, with a Cargo of Lumber for Nassau N. P. After landing some passengers on the Florida Coast at Indian River, she proceeded on her voyage, and sometime in the month of August following she appeared off Indian River Inlet and came in over the bar. Her cargo consisted of Salt, Sugar and Coffee The whole of the salt was landed and a part of the Sugar and Coffee and left there. While in the River the U.S.
Revenue Cutter, Crawford, Capt Day, hove in sight, when a manifest was made out on board the Ellen setting forth the remainder of the Sugar and Coffee but making no mention of the Salt. The boat of the Cutter came in and boarded the Sch" Ellen, and the first or second Lieut. of the Cutter after examining her papers, hold &c. enclosed a copy of the manifest as exhibited and directed it to the “Collector of the Customs, Jacksonville E. F.” and gave the same to one of the Passengers, M*Kinney by name, for delivery. The Sch" Ellen after

taking in some 12 or 14 passengers then proceeded on her voyage to Jacksonville where she arrived near the latter part of August, in the evening, and during the night the sugar and Coffee on board was landed and stored, a small portion of it having been left at St. Johns'
Bar on her way up the River.—The officer of the Customs did not board her on her arrival at the wharf, and perhaps not during the next day. Thus was the revenue of the U.S. defrauded thro’ the neglect of the Officers appointed for its protection. These facts can be proved by the following testimony—The log Book of the Cutter Crawford for the month of August, by W* D. Ward of Indian River, Mills O.
Burnham, of Do. Frederic Weedon, of Do. W." Burnham of Jacksonville, Geo. M. Barnes of Do. C. S. Emery of Do. and Lewis Mallory of Charleston S C.
In calling the attention of the Department to the above facts, I
wish to make a futher statement.
The Public Interest requires the appointment of some Efficient Officer of the Customs at this port, 1* Because, the present Collector (thro’ leave of absence granted on account of ill health,) has for some time past, and still is away from this place, having considerable planting interests in the interior say some 70 or 80 miles distant, and does not come here only once in two or three months.
2" The present Deputy Collector (acting also as Inspector) has been absent from this place and at the North some 3 or 4 months, and now since his return from ill health is unable to attend to any business, and this is likely to continue so.
3" Because during the absence of the Collector, Deputy Collector &
Inspector, the duties of the Office devolved on W* B. Ross and Thomas O. Holmes merchants of this place, the former being absent most of the time and the latter too much engaged in Mercantile business to discharge the duties of Sub Deputy Collector & that thereby the public interests have suffered.
4" Because during the absence of the Collector, the Deputy Collector has not with sufficient promptitude and despatch discharged the duties of his office.
5"And because, if the Revenue has been defrauded in the manner before specified, it is more than probable it will occur again, there being many steam-saw-mills in this section on the river and numerous cargoes of Lumber shipped to the West Indies, which are exchanged there for articles paying duty in the U. S. and brot to this port.
I would wish to draw the attention of the Department to the fact, that on account of the facilities afforded to the smuggling of contraband articles, and particularly Cigars of Spanish Manufacture, at Indian River Inlet and Gilberts Bar from their contiguity to the West
563214–62–52

India Islands, some other protection, than the occasional cruising of Cutters along the coast should be afforded. A large portion of this interesting country having been recently settled under the “Armed Occupation act.” It is believed that extensive operations are in contemplation to avoid the Revenue Law at these places.
I am aware that there have been many applications for the Office of Collector of this port, should a vacancy occur, nevertheless, from the fact of having been recomended by our late Delegate the Hon.
Charles Downing dec" and the determination that the abuses that have grown out of the late administration of the Office should be corrected, and its duties promptly and efficiently performed if those in charge of the public interests should see fit to appoint me, induce me thus to add my name to the numerous list of applicants for this office.—
For testimonials of character ability &c. I take pleasure in refering to Gen' Joseph M. Hernandez St. Augustine, Hon. I. H. Bronson U. S. Judge for the Eastern District of Florida, Gen.' Duncan L.
Clinch, Jefferson, Camden Co. Ga. Revd David Brown, Jacksonville E. F. Maj" John Beard U. S. Marshal E. Dist. Fl" Col. Jas. Dill, Collector Jacksonville, A. W. Walker Esq. Collector of the Customs at St. Augustine E. F.”
I have the honor to subscribe myself resp”. Your Obt Servt CHANDLER S. EMERY—
HON: J. C. SPENCER, SecY U. S. Treasury, Washington, D.C.
[Endorsed] Chandler S. Emery Jacksonville, Dec. 14, 1843. Neglect of the C. H. officers at the port of Jacksonville E. 101 Decr 26/43
</docbody>
<dochead>Majr Barker THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. from U.S. Attys. and Clks. (Fla.):LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E. F. Dec 15" 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Our Court at St Augustine after a most laborious Session of three weeks closed at 8 oclock on Saturday evening, the 2" Inst, and the term commenced here on the next Monday morning & has just closed this (Friday) evening: The session at Newnansville commences next Monday the 18" Inst, and to get there we have to travel 80 miles over a bad road; which will occupy all of two days, so that I have no time to make out my returns, and shall be compelled to postpone them until the circuit shall be ended, a sudden & unexpected accumulation of criminal business at St Augustine prevented as much being

done in the land cases as was desirable: three small ones were however decided & one for 23.040 acres was argued & Submitted, & several interlocutory orders were taken in other cases preparatory to a final disposition thereof at the next term: in regard to these cases I take the liberty to call to your recollection the fact that no appropriation was made at the last Session of Congress to pay my Extra compensation for defending them: notwithstanding which my particular attention was required & has been given to them, in full confidence that such appropriation would be made at the present Session; I consider myself entitled upon every principle of Justice and equity to Fifteen hundred dollars for the present year & there is and can be no reason why the attorney who may defend them during the ensuing year should not receive the same amount, or why the assistant counsel should not be also paid, these claims are of too much moment to the Government to be lightly regarded or carelessly or inattentively managed, to their proper and efficient defence, a due degree of experience and close attention are requisite, & this can hardly be afforded, or expected, without compensation, so far as it may be in your power to aid in procuring the proper appropriation for this object; you will much oblige me by rendering it.”
With Great respect I am Sir Yours &"
THO DOUGLAS U. S. Attorney &c C. B. PENROSE Esquire Solr U.S. Treasury City of Washington D. C.
[Addressed] C. B. Penrose Esquire Sol' U. S. Treasury City of Washington D. C. [Postmarked] Jacksonville Flor. Dec 1925
[Endorsed] Jacksonville E. F. Dec. 15. 1843. Tho. Douglas Dis.
Atty. Relative to his Compensation for attending to the Florida Land claims—File—no answer HEZEKIAH L. 
</docbody>
<dochead>THISTLE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA: ND, SN Live Oak Lets.: LS]</source>
<place-time>JACKSONVILLE E F Dec 17” 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have received Your communications of the 2nd and 5th."—
In reply to that of the 5th I would state that there valuable Live oak timber lands in the cove of the Ouithlacoochee—and also valuable lands for that purpose near the mouth of the Ocklawaha river, which in my opinion ought to be reserved immediately, before it is destroyed by the Settlers, who are flocking in and squatting upon the land without paying any respect to the laws, but it is impossible for me to desig-

nate the Townships or Sections without having the lines traced out by a surveyor—
There is a large tract of Live oak timber land Southwest of the head of Indian River—And the largest tracts that I have seen are on the Carloosahatchee, and Talakchopko which empty into Charlottes harbour, and contain many thousand acres of land covered with Live oak—There are large tracts of land in other sections of the country.
which I will examine as soon as I am at leisure—These tracts that I
have described above, as soon as I have orders, I will loose no time in having properly designated.
You will perceive by a copy of a letter to Mr Douglass," that Palmer & Ferris's suits, have been laid over till the May term; In the mean time I would ask for authority to procure Township diagrams to enable me to show to the court, in what Townships and upon what sections they have cut live oak”
The judge states that he has not the authority to direct the Township plats to be brought from St Augustine or Newnansville, as it would disarrange the business of those offices. and the Suits cannot be properly sustained without them—the diagrams will cost one dollar each I will enclose copies of two letters to Mr Walker collector of St Augustine"—
There are two vessels now loaded with Live oak at Mosquito, detained by the officer of the revenue cutter There are three gangs of Live oakers now in that Section of the country procuring timber—
I have not heard from the Surveyor General—
It is very difficult for me to cruise from St Augustine to Key Biscayne as I have nothing but open boats, and those points it is very important for me to visit often"—
I remain Sir With respect Your obt Servt H. L. THISTLE Agent for timber on public Land in East Florida HON DAVID HENSHAW Secretary of the Navy
[Endorsed] Thistle Dec 17th 1843. States where the best live oak lands lie—The suits against Palmer & Ferris have been deferred.
asks to obtain Township diagrams auth the necessary diagrams not to exceed $1.00 each he may make a personal inspection of the lands

alluded to, but he is not authzed to employ a surveyor—if a survey be necessary he will apply to Dpt wrote Jan 20 * T 290 Jany 3 Call 
</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES S. SIBLEY TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. from U.S. Attys. & Clks. (Fla.):ALS]</source>
<place-time>(Private) TALLAHASSEE Dec 18th 1843</place-time>
<docbody>HON D LEVY Delegate in Congress DEAR SIR May I ask of you to call as soon as you can on the Solicitor of the Treasury and afterwards on M Spencer for me. Ask the Sol' to show you some correspondence I have had with him respecting the case of the U States vs Gov Call I wish you to see what I have written to him to day" and in my letter of the 8th December " also the letters I have written to him heretofore respecting the employment of assistant Counsel.” Do make them understand as you well Know that there is necessity for such Counsel. Any one man in Florida would be overborne by the efforts legitimate and illegitimate which will be made in this case by Call and his set. M. Westcott aided me in the Court of Appeals and there I succeeded If I have aid below I think I can beat them although his Excellency may again come into Court and spout and Storm in propira persona as he did before. M Westcott will aid me whether the Government pay him or not. You Know our connexion and can judge why he does so. It is on my account merely. On the first trial he declined on account of the coolness between him and Call, and Judge Douglas assigned M. Grattan to help me. The United States refused to pay him for arguing the case in the District Court and also to pay M. Westcott $100. for arguing the case in the Court of Appeals I
shall satisfy M. W. out of my own pocket if the Government will not.
I am determined not to be borne down in this case and that the Government shall have justice if it can be got here and I think it can.
Call's losses by speculations banks rail-roads storms fires &c has created some sympathy for him with many and then he owes many

jurors and himself and all his friends strain every nerve to carry the cause out of doors. They denounce it as a Democratic persecution.
You can if you will enlighten M* Spencer and M. Penrose as to this matter. Just look at the Sett-offs filed by Call. Please see also that Call & Walker do not do me injustice in any communications they may make to the federal officers. Call as you Know once before wrote a base and malicious falsehood (of which too you could testify)
respecting Gov" Read and myself to the Secretary of the Treasury and he is entirely capable of doing it again. He slandered me before because of my doing my duty without regard to his notions He was exceedingly hostile because he was indicted for erecting a nuisance—
his Lake Iamona Dam which I presented by instruction of the Grand Jury. I entertain no ill feeling towards him but I will go straight forward in all matters where he is concerned and not suffer him or G. K. Walker to wander a hairsbreadth from the truth nor extend to them any thing not demanded by strict laws There is nothing new here except the project of a new Chancery Court which excites considerable interest. I believe the object is to have a special Court to wind up the Banks in Chancery so say Westcott Baltzell and Brockenbrough to the Democrats and the Bankites go for it because it makes an office. Randall Thompson and half a dozen others are supposed to be Seeking for it—Dont give it to any of them. If any Floridian in the District gets it I am next in the official ranks after Judge Douglas but if you will Send us a good firm antibankite who will do something I will give way. Westcott Baltzell or Brockenbrough would not have it if you made the Salary $3.000
Capt Harris has been tried upon the charge of arson for burning the town and has been acquitted without hesitation Walker was very active and much interested in the prosecution. Camp Birchett &
Berthelot were acquitted of their Faro Scrape Very truly Your friend CHA*SSIBLEY
[Addressed] Hon. D. Levy Delegate in Congress Washington DC
[Postmarked] Tallahassee Flor. Dec. 24 free
[Endorsed] 18. Dec. 43 Respy referred to the Solicitor of the Treas'
This paper has accidentally been over looked & is now refd to the Sol' 15 May 44 *M*C. Young "

</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO JAMES C. JOHNSTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book P-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT December 20th 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>POSTMASTER Marion, F. Ty.
I have received your letter of the 10" inst.” stating that you have been requested by Mr. G. Yale to attend at Jacksonville, F.T. as a witness in the case of Everett and the Post Office Dept. to testify as to the forgery of your frank by Everett. If this be a summons on the part of the United States, it is presumed the U.S. Marshal, upon being applied to will pay you the compensation the law provides.
Should this be deemed insufficient, it is proper you should know, there is no legal power in this Dept. to increase it."
C.A.W.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO SECRETARY DUVAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 9]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 21" Dec. 1843.</place-time>
<docbody>THOMAS H. DUVAL Esq. Secty. of Fa. Tallahassee SIR, I have received your letter of the 10" inst.” and by way of explanation of my letter of the 16" Nov. last,” must be allowed to say, that the appeal made by you to this department on the 4" Nov.”
in regard to the purchase of Stationary for the use of the Legislative Council of Florida, did strike me as extraordinary. I perceive in my letter no censure upon the Governor and Secretary of the Territory.
None was intended—but there certainly are suggestions made as to the duties of those officers which your appeal seemed to require under existing laws. The Act of 29"August, 1842,” prohibits any payment on account of Territorial expenses, unless the Secretary of the Treasury shall have estimated therefor, and the object been approved by Congress. The estimates submitted by this Department for the expenses of your Territory, are made up on the statement of officers appointed and paid by the United States to protect the public interests—particularly the Governor and Secretary.

No account for disbursements in the Territories can be settled and adjusted by the accounting Officers, until it has first been estimated for by the officers of the Territory, submitted by this Department, and approved by Congress.
It is clearly the duty of the Territorial officers to see that the money appropriated by Congress upon their own estimates, is applied to those purposes and no other. The certificates issued under the Seal of the Territory, sanction the expenditures therein expressed. To issue them for expenditures beyond, or for objects not contemplated in the estimates and the appropriation of Congress, and which cannot be paid here except by a violation of the laws, would be an act of bad faith towards innocent holders of such certificates, should they happen to be assigned to them & received in ignorance that they had been issued without legal authority and without means of payment.
I think, therefore, that the act in question supersedes the necessity for further instructions in regard to certificates under the seal of the Territory, and must beg to repeat the suggestion which concludes my letter of the 16" Nov. respecting the regulation of Territorial disbursements.
I am &".
J. C. SPENCER Secy. of the Treasy.
</docbody>
<dochead>HIRAM NOURSE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:LS]</source>
<place-time>Collectors office DISTRICT OF APALACHICOLA Dec. 21. 1843</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have this day received your letter of the 9" instant.” At the time I addressed your predecessor a year ago, in relation to the Port of St. Joseph it had ceased to be a place of business, as the Rail Road had been removed, on which it depended entirely for communication with the River and interior country. I so stated in a letter to the Delegate from Florida with the explanation that Congress would make it a Surveyors Port, and thereby reduce the expenses of the District Nothing was done, and I accordingly addressed you on the
23" ult" for the purpose of obtaining your instructions.
There is no business of any description at St. Joseph and nearly the whole population have abandoned the place. only two or three families remaining. But as it was the opinion of our merchants that St Joseph would offer inducements for smuggling if left without an officer, I did not feel at liberty to withdraw the Inspector or dismiss

him, Untill I should receive instructions, from the Department I
do not think it at all necessary for the protection of the Revenue that an Officer should any longer reside at St. Joseph, as I think that any attempt to evade the laws by introducing Goods through that Port would be made known to this office. But as the Inspector has remained till the present time employed as he supposed by Government he will expect his usual compensation to the time of dismission.
I shall notify W. D. Price, the Inspector, at St Joseph that his pay will be discontinued at the close of this quarter.
I have the honour to be with great respect Your Obt Servt HIRAM NOURSE Collector HON. JOHN C. SPENCER Secy. of Treasy Wash" D.C.
[Endorsed] H. Nourse Collector Apalach. Dec. 21./43 Letter in relation to Inspector at St. Joseph GR A. 1 Jan' 1"/44 Rodman"
ans" Jan' 4/44”
PETITION TO DELEGATE LEVY BY CITIZENS OF ST.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOSEPH</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Ans. to Enquiries and Resol. of Cong.:DS]</source>
<place-time>ST JOSEPH Dec 25, 1843</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR. The office of Inspector of the Customs at this Port having been discontinued by the Secretary of the Treasury without the appointment of any officer in lieu thereof, We would respectfully request you to use your influence, bothe with the head of the Treasury, and if necessary on the floor of Congress in obtaining for Our Port a Surveyors rank on as favourable terms as possible, although no duties have been collected here for the last year or likely to be for some time to come. Still the facilities for smugling and transportation of merchandise over a good road of only six miles to the waters of the Apalachicola must without the constant presence of a Custom House officer lead to an illicit trade, alike pregudicial to the revenue and the fair dealer. Should a Surveyors Port be established, We beg leave to recommend William D Price the late Inspector, for the appointment to be made *

Very respectfully your obt Serv"
J.F. Potts Mich" Manning Judge of the County Court Micheal Mitchell Ed. B. Jenkins Antonio Roura Henry Hue Henry C. Hastedt William R. Daffin Wm W. Briggs N. Hayden G. J. Broughton Tho" Gill C.C.C.C Washington Briggs David Webster William Briggs John Jenkins Ephraim Andrews Ja” P Penn. P.M. Joel Humphries James L. Barber William Humphries Jno. Martin HON D LEVY Delegate to Congress from Florida Washington City
[Addressed] Hon David Levy Delegate from Florida Washington
[Postmarked] St Joseph Fl" 27 Dec 1843 Free
[Endorsed] St. Joseph's Fa—Dec 25/43 Petition to have a Surveyorship at St. Joseph—citizens of St Joseph recommending a port of survey there. L file in this C H Dist file THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO LORENZO THOMAS AND
</docbody>
<dochead>GEORGE G. WAGGAMAN</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT December 26:1843.</place-time>
<docbody>MAJOR LORENZO THOMAS, CAPTAIN G. G. WAGGAMAN, Newnansville Alachua County Florida, GENTLEMEN, I enclose you a copy of a letter from the Hon. D. Levy, delegate in Congress from Florida, which I submit to you for consideration.”
The object of your being detailed on your present duty was to get all the facts embraced within the resolution of the House of Representatives” and the instructions given you,” and close, forever, if possible, these Florida claims. I, of course, cannot know the

particular circumstances occurring before you or in the collection of testimony which lead to the adoption of rules for your government in the performance of your duty, and hence do not mean to express any opinion in relation to their propriety or impropriety. I can only express the hope that the investigation may cover all the grounds of inquiry committed to you and all the testimony which has relevancy to it.
J M. P.
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS BY THE MAYOR AND ALDER-
</docbody>
<dochead>MEN OF THE CITY OF ST. AUGUSTINE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred December 28, 1843]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled:
The Memorial of the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of St. Augustine Respectfully sheweth:
That at the transfer of the Floridas to the United States, from the King of Spain, the Governor of the Province of East Florida rendered to the American Commissioner a Schedule of the Public Property, which Schedule included all those Lots and Buildings that had been set apart for public uses, connected with the wants and convenience of the inhabitants of the City of St. Augustine: and for the better information of your Honorable Body a Certified Copy of this Schedule, and a translation thereof is hereunto annexed, marked A *
That upon the cessation of the Spanish jurisdiction, the means of sustaining the Local Institutions of the City, which had been hitherto liberally and freely afforded to the inhabitants thereof, by the Spanish Government also ceased—the Public School established and sustained by the King was discontinued; and all the public property, as shown by the aforesaid Schedule, was taken possession of by the military authorities of the United States:
That soon after the transfer of the Floridas to the United States, they were united under a Territorial Government—the Civil laws which had hitherto prevailed in the two provinces, were repealed; and a re-organization of the Government of the City of St. Augustine, conformable to our Republican Institutions took place. The Act for that purpose was approved 13" September, 1822,” and empowered the Corporate authorities amongst other things, to provide for the Establishment and Superintendence of Public Schools:

That the clause thus early introduced into the City Charter under the new order of things, demonstrated most clearly, the public feeling on the subject of primary education; and so greatly do your Memorialists estimate its benefits, that nothing, in their opinion can justify any integral portion of a free government in not making ample provision therefor, but the absolute want of means to effect it.
And your Memorialists further shew, That whilst the Provinces remained under the Sovereignty of the King of Spain, a Public School House was provided at his expense: That this House and the Lot on which it Stands, forms the “Third” item in the Schedule above referred marked A.: and that on the organisation of the Board of Land Commissioners for the District of East Florida, under the Act of Congress of 3" March 1823,” and the several Acts amending the same, this Building and the Lot were claimed by the Congregation of the Roman Catholic Church, and decreed by the Acts of that Board,”
as rightfully belonging to it:
That the Cabildo (being a body composed of the Governor and other officers of the King, and of other members elected by the inhabitants of the City) held its meetimgs at the Exchequer, Treasury and Custom House Buildings, where the Governor resided; and at the transfer, these buildings and their lots were held possession of by the Collector of the Customs of the United States, and were used as a Custom House and Stores, until the year 1825 when they were destroyed by fire, and have remained in that dilapidated state eversince.
That the Lot and Buildings, indicated as the Sixth item, in the Said Schedule, was by the Said Board of Commissioners divided, and the one moiety thereof declared to be private property: and the other moiety thereof has remained in the possession of the City Authorities, on the admitted ground that under the Spanish Sovereignty, this property was more immediately devoted to City uses, but the title thereof is nominally in the United States.
And your Memoralists further shew, That by an Act of the Congress of the United States, approved 8" February 1827, entitled “An Act to provide for the Confirmation and Settlement of private Land Claims in East Florida, and for other purposes,” did confirm the Commons in the City of St. Augustine to the Corporate Authorities thereof, to the same extent that they were enjoyed under the Spanish Government; and by the same act did also confirm the Parochial Church and Burying Grounds to the Congregation of the Roman Catholic Church; and the “Old Episcopal Church Lot” indicated in

the Schedule under the head of “Lots,” was confirmed to the “incorporated Episcopal Church of St. Augustine.”
That by an Act of Congress, entitled “An Act making provision for the Sale and disposition of the Public Ground in the Cities of St.
Augustine and Pensacola, and to reserve certain Lots and Buildings for Public purposes, and to Provided for their repair and preservation,” approved 28* June 1832,” the said Congress did vest in the Mayor of the City of St. Augustine and his Successors in Office, in Trust, the title to the “Old Burnt Hospital Lot” indicated in the Schedule referred to, as the “Fifth” item, for the necessary buildings
“for Educating free white Children of both Sexes;” and by the same Act did direct “that the Lots, Buildings and Commons, not set apart or needed for Public purposes shall at such time and in such proportions and sizes as may be deemed most advisable and conducive to the interests of the United States and the said Cities (St. Augustine and Pensacola) be sold at Public Auction, and the money arising from the sales paid into the Treasury of the United States.
And your Memorialists further shew, That they deem it inconsistent with the just claims which they have upon the Fostering Consideration of the Congress of the United States, as well as incompatible with the spirit which should exercise its government, that such a disposition should be made of the unoccupied Lots and Buildings, remaining as Public, within the Chartered Limits of the City of St. Augustine; especially, as it will be taking away every means of revenue from one of the Oldest Cities on the Atlantic Coast: and it seems to your Memoralists, that after an existence of so many ages, its inhabitants should not, by a change of their Sovereignty, be left without the means of providing for, and of sustaining the institutions incident to their new relations and necessary to render them useful members of a free Government, by the most suitable moral and intellectual cultivation.
and your Memorialists further shew, That the Corporate Authorities, since the Act of 1832 have not been able to Erect the Buildings contemplated in that Act, for the want of the necessary funds; nor have they been yet able to secure the means necessary to establish Primary Schools, in consequence of the great and severe difficulties to which their constituents have been exposed by the Indian depredators.
Your Memorialists therefore pray, That your Honorable Body would repeal so much of the Act of 28" June, 1832, as directs the sale of the Lots, Buildings and Commons referred to, and the disposition of the proceeds; and that the title to the Lot indicated as

the “Sixth” item in the aforesaid Schedule be vested in the City Corporate Authorities of St. Augustine, for City purposes; and that all the other Lots with their Buildings, as in the opinion of the President of the United States are not needed for military purposes be vested in the said Corporate Authorities, to be disposed of as they shall see fit, to enable them to Erect the necessary Buildings, and to form a Fund for the Establishment and support of Schools for the Education of white Children of both Sexes: and that the water Lots and waste Lands to low water mark, the benefits of which hitherto enured to the inhabitants of the City, for grazing lands and various other purposes, be also ceded to the Local Authorities for such general purposes as may be for their general and mutual benefit; and also, that the Streets, Lanes, alleys and By-Paths, within the said Corporate Limits, as they existed under the Spanish Jurisdiction, be also vested in the said Corporate authorities for the perpetual use of the inhabitants of said City.
And your memorialists, relying upon the known liberality and justice of the Congress of the United States, and respectfully referring to the various Acts of your Honorable Body establishing precedents in like cases, and especially to an Act entitled “An Act granting to the Corporation of Tuscaloosa certain Lots and Privileges over the reservation and commons in said Town,” approved 26" May, 1824 *—
an Act Entitled “An Act granting certain grounds in the City of Detroit to the Mayor, Recorder, Aldermen and Freeman thereof,”
Approved 20" May, 1826;" and also, to an Act entitled an Act further supplemental to the Act entitled “An Act making further provision for settling the claims to Lands in the Territory of Missouri” passed the 13" day of June, 1812 approved 27" January, 1831." Referring also, to the annexed documents, being the aforesaid Schedule A and its translation; surveys of the several Lots mentioned in their said memorial; and a Plan of the City of St. Augustine,” your Petitioners, as in duty bound, &c.
E B GOULD, Mayor City of St. Augustine MANUEL CRESPO
PEDRO BENET
MATHEW SOLANA Aldermen JOHN M. FONTANÉ
By the Mayor and Aldermen:
P. B. DUMAS. Clerk of the Council

[Endorsed] Florida—St. Augustine Mem. of Mayor & Common Council of S* Augustine, praying a cession to the City of certain vacant property within the corporate limits of said city. Dec. 28, 1843." Com. on Territories. Territories Mr. Levy GEORGES. HAWKINS TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Recd.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>APPALACHICOLA. Dec 29 [1843]</place-time>
HON: DAVID LEVY.
SIR, A few days since I learned that it was the intention of the Department to abolish the Office of Inspector at S*Joseph.”
It is true business has ceased and there are in are few, if any, vessels entering that port, but I think the interests of Government require an officer there of some kind—
You are probably aware, that the Port of St Joseph is of all the harbors in the Gulf of Mexico most easy of ingress and egress and admits merchant vessels of the heaviest class—Our foreign trade is increasing, and especially with Cuba—There can be little doubt but that Smuggling would be carried on to a great extent in the harbour of St Joseph, if there is no Officer of Gover" there to protect its interests.—At any rate, I should suppose the best plan to continue the present office, till some action of Congress, making it a surveyors district—
Feeling the utmost confidence in the views as expressed above let me request you to see the Secretary upon the Subject.—
Yr" respectfully, GEO. S. HAWKINS U.S. Atty. Ap'
[Addressed] Hon: David Levy, In Congress, Washington.
[Endorsed] Apal" Florida Dec 29./43 G S Hawkins U S D' Att”
rec" app" of an Insp" at St Joseph G R* What do you think sh" be done M*Cy” File this letter as the Insp has been removed on the recom” of the Coll" who states that there is no necessity for an Insp"
at s” place. The object of this letter is designed to get a Situation for the late Insp M. Floyd G. R.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk.18]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE January 2” 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON: J. C. SPENCER Sec. of Try”
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 30" Ult” ” advising me that “the Committee of Ways & Means have enquired of you “whether the keepers of the archives in Florida may not be dispensed with by requiring some of the public Officers of the Territory, say the Secretary, or one of the Registers of the Land Offices to take charge of these archives? or if both the keepers can not be dispensed with, might not one of them by a transfer of the whole of the archives to one place?”—and requesting my “views upon these questions that they may be submitted in reply to the enquiries of the Committee.”
In regard to the subject of enquiry, I herewith enclose a copy of my letter of the 5" of January last to your predecessor,” and respectfully submit as the result of further consideration, that public convenience in the present localities, & the familiarity of the keepers of the archives with the existing arrangement of the papers present reasons for the continuance of the present Officers. I could not recommend the transfer of those papers to the Secretary of the Territory, an Officer not responsible in any way to the Department, nor subject to its instructions, nor do I think it would be proper to transfer the archives to the Register.
I feel bound to state however that it would facilitate the surveys of the private land claims to consolidate the two Offices under one keeper at the same place at which the Surveyor Generals Office is established (S" Augustine, Flor.), & place the keeper by law under the control of this Office for reasons appearing in the enclosed copy of my letter to your predecessor.”
With great respect Your Ob" St THO. H. BLAKE Comm.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIII]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 5th Jan” 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HONB" D. LEVY Delegate from Florida, Washington DC, SIR In answer to your letter of the 20" ultomo,' I have the honor to inform you, that the Commissions to which you therein refer will expire as follows that of Richard K". Call, as Governor of Florida, on 11" of August next;
“of Issac H Bronson, as Judge for the Eastern District of Florida, on the 14" of March next;
“of William Marvin, as Judge for the Sothern District of Florida, on the 21" of April next;
“of Joseph B, Browne, as Marshal for the Sothern District of Florida, on the 8" of June next.
I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Obedient Servant A. P.U.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN P. DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee FLORIDA Jan” 7" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>MY DEAR SIR. George Walker Esq president of the Senate of Florida and formerly Dist Atty for the Western District of Florida requests me to recommend him to you for reappointment to his old office which he is informed will be vacated by the present incumbent Walker Anderson Eq" who is about to remove to Mobile. Mr Walker resigned the office of Dist Atty some years since” and removed to Jackson County Florida where he has since been engaged in the practice of the law. The extreme unhealthiness of his location will force him to abandon it; and he is extremely anxious to return to Pensacola.
Mr Walker was decidedly the most able and popular Dist Atty in the Territory. His reappointment to his old office will give general satisfaction. The office is scarcely worth having but Mr Walker is a singular man of retired habits, and assures me that the President could not confer a greater favour on him than by appointing him to this little office in the quiet town of Pensacola, which he says was intended for him from the beginning. I consider M. Walker as peculilarly entitled to the patronage of the government, not only on account of the able and faithful performance of the duties of his late office, | Not found.

but also on account of his services as Commissioner to treat with the Apalachicola Indians for their removal to the West,-I was Acting Governor of Florida and Commander in Chief at the time of the removal and superintended the embarcation and although I was compelled ultimately to surround the Indians by a prompt movement of the troops and force a compliance with the treaty, I could not have effected their assemblage at any one point had it not been for the treaty negotiated by Mr Walker. The whole of the Apalachicola Indians were thus removed and the people of Middle and West Florida were saved from the further horrors of indian warfare. For my conduct on this occasion, I received the thanks of the War Department, but some time afterwards by the intreague of Governor Call M" Van Buren appointed another man to my office,” but no notice has ever been taken of the efficient services of M" Walker—I take the liberty as an old friend to write to you in behalf of M" Walker because I believe you feel assured that I would recommend no man to you whose appointment would not reflect honour on the Administration of President Tyler for which I have the highest respect Yours truly JOHN P. DUWAL
HONABLE T UPSHUR Secy of State P. S. Since I have incidently mention my own affairs perhaps it would be as well, to say that M. Van Buren done me injustice, by the misrepresentations of Gov. Call; upon my writing to him," he removed Gov" Call from office,” and after the app" of Mr McCants Sec of Florida in my place assured me through a friend that he properly appreciated my services and that he had lost no confidence in me, but he forgot to do me justice by restoring me to my office, subsequently M* Tyler appointed my nephew Tho" H. DuVal the gov" son, Sec of Florida in the place of Mr M"Cants," which was very gratifying to me, there can be no better appt. M' Tyler also offered me through M. Wickliffe who is an old friend the appt of Post Master at Tallahassee, but although this is a good office the unhealthiness of Tallahassee during the summer precluded the acceptance of the office and I was considling to execute the duties by deputy during the Summer & fall, which might attatch censure to the Administration, Mr Wickliffe has kindly offered to second any application I may make for office, but I know of no office vacant in Florida which I desire, -
should there be a vacant Judgeship if deemed worthy I should be

happy to receive it. For recommendations I refer you to the compilation of the Laws of Florida which I was appointed to make by the Gov' & Council of Florida, and which you will find in your Department, also to the unanimous recommendations of the Legislature &
Gov" of Florida" and Court of Appeals of Florida" alse in your Department—The Court of Appeals were pleased to speak in flattering terms of my legal attainments as you will see. I hope sir you will excuse my writing so much about myself. I cannot address you through the Delegate, against whom I voted in consequence of his groundless hostility to Mr Tylers Adm" Yours &c J P DUVAL
N B. I am not anxious to remain in Florida and situation at Washington City or elsewhere in a healthy Country would suit me better, but of course you will consult in this matter the views and interests of the Government. J. P. D.
[Addressed] Hon Able P Upshur Secy of State (private)
[Endorsed] U.S. Attorney—W. Florida. Walker Geo. recommended, 1844.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Judges, Marshals, Attys.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office S*AUGUSTINE Jany 8, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith enclose you my Semi-Annual accounts for “fees
& emoluments” for the last half of the year 1842 and for the year
1843"—Not knowing the precise reason why the number of Cases pending &c was required to be stated; I have included all that were upon the respective dockets at the Several terms embraced within the period covered by these accounts [including the Cases between private individuals]" although I have received fees during that time in but very few of them: in Civil cases between individuals in the Territory there are no attorneys fees taxed: in criminal cases the District Attorneys are entitled to a fee for every indictment “found a true bill”, but after indictment is found no further fee accrues in such cases, although for various causes they may remain many years on the Docket: This is the reason why my reports include a considerable number of Criminal Cases for which [in these accounts]" no fees are charged; the item for arrearages in the account for the last half of the

year 1843 is for Services long since rendered, but which were not sooner paid for, because the Marshal had not funds wherewith to pay them; indeed even now he is our of funds, and the items for fees in these accounts, altho' stated because they accrued during the respective periods which they embrace remain unpaid; this, together, with the withholding of my Extra Compensation for defending Suits instituted under the Acts of Congress of 26 May 1828" and 28 May
1830 * on claims to land, operates a most Serious inconvenience to me. The duties of District Attorney are in this district exceedingly arduous, owing to the vast amount of criminal & other public business constantly accruing [the incumbent of the office here being Attorney as well for the Territory as for the United States]" while the fees bear no proportion to the time he has to spend, and the labour he has to perform: I have been compelled to give up a large portion of my private practice, that I might devote the necessary time to my public duties: these privations are therefore the more injurious to me: There yet remain on the docket ten of these land cases, embracing about four hundred thousand acres: besides several that have been remanded by the Supreme Court, which will be docketed & require the Action of our Court and the Attention of Counsel during the current year &
others will probably be filed.
No appropriations having been made at the last Session of Congress to pay this “Extra Compensation” although the Service was required by the law, and the instructions of the President;—was necessary to the public interest; and has been unremittingly performed: I shall be greatly obliged if you Sir, will take the proper measures to procure an appropriation for this object, at the present Session; and I would with all due respect suggest that this appropriation ought to be sufficient to pay the Extra Compensation for the year 1843 and '44;" and also to pay the Services of Gov" Duval the assistant Counsel for the same time if he shall (as I think he ought to be) continued for the present year"
With great respect I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Ob" Serv"
THO DOUGLAS
HoN JOHN C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury City of Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Letter Tho" Douglas U S Atty of East Florida 8 Jany
1844 asking for increase of compensation.

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN BEARD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd., B 387:ALS]</source>
<place-time>U.S. Marshal's Office, Dist: East Florida, ST AUGUSTINE, Jany 12" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to inform you that in pursuance of instructions from your predecessor, and on complaint of the officers in command at Forts Brooke & King in this Territory, I have removed a number of intruders on the Military reservations, around those posts.
One of the persons, a man by the name of Helfer, who was removed at the earnest & reiterated request of Gen Worth, was exceedingly contumacious: and after giving him repeated notice, and ample time, to remove quietly, I was obliged at last to call for aid from the post–
Fort King—and remove his effects as the law directs.
He has since, at the instigation as I think, of other “pestilent fellows,” instituted an action of trespass vs myself, & my deputy who executed the duty.
As this is a matter of public concernment I respectfully suggest the propriety of a special order to be issued from the Department to the U.S. Attorney for this District instructing him to defend the Officers of the government, and to engage, if he thinks proper, assistant Counsel.—
As it will be necessary in the defence to shew the authority under which I acted I must solicit the favor of copies, properly authenticated for evidence, of the following documents from the files of your office, viz Copy of a letter from Mr Poinsett To my predecessor, Col Sanchez,- June 13th 1839.16
Copy—Same to Same . . . July 17, 1840.17
Copy—from John Beard, Marshal, To M Spencer–Nov. 28."
1842.18
Answer of M Spencer to the last— Dec 24, 1842."
Your attention to this matter at your earliest convenience will much oblige Your Very Obt Serv"
JOHN BEARD U.S. Marshal &C.
HoN: J. M. PORTER Secy of War Washington City
[Endorsed] St Augustine, Jany 12/44 John Beard U.S. Marshal asks that Dist. Atto. be directed to defend him & his deputy in action for

trespass brot. by an intruder, Helfer whom they removed from Mily reserve at Fort King—Asks for copies of papers B387 Rec Jany 24/44
War Dep Ansd 26 Jany 1844 *
</docbody>
<dochead>ROBERT MITCHELL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:ALS)</source>
<place-time>Collectors Office PENSACOLA January 16, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HONB' JOHN C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury SIR, On the 1. of March 1840,” I suggested to the Department that, the Surveyors Office at the Bay of S" Andrews in this District, might be discontinued without any injury to the public interest.
The judicious remarks contained in your Report to the President, on the diminution of the expenses of the various Collection Districts, induces me again to renew the suggestion. There is no business whatever carried on at S*Andrews Bay, nor is there any prospect in view, that can justify the continuance of an Officer there; the unexpected visits occasionally at such places of a Revenue Cutter of any other public vessel, would be more likely to prevent clandestine transactions, than the knowledge that there existed a negligent incumbent who could be watched and avoided.
I have the honor to be with much respect Your most Ob St ROB" MITCHELL Collector
[Endorsed] Robert Mitchell, Collector Pensacola, Jan' 16. 1844
Recommending the discontinuance of the Surveyor at S" Andrews Bay GR as the Syr at this port has under date of the 6" Dec 1843
resigned it is deemed proper not to fill the vacancy, the Coll' informed Feby 6/44 P. 53 Jany 31/44 Rodman ans" Feby 6" *
</docbody>
<dochead>THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Quarter Master General's Office, WASHINGTON CITY, Jan' 16" 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In obedience to your orders, and in compliance with so much of the resolution of the Senate of the 11" instant,” requiring

the Secretary of War to communicate to the Senate the correspondence with General Worth and other Officers relative to fortifying the Keys and Islands around Cape Florida; and connecting the waters of Matanzas river and Musqueto Lagoon with Indian river at the Haulover,” in East Florida & C; as refers to this Office, I have the honor to submit the following extract from my annual report made in November 1841: viz, “In consequence of the heavy losses sustained by the public in the wreck of vessels transporting supplies to the Military depôts on the Saint John's in Florida, I consider it my duty, to ask your attention to the condition of the inland communication from Saint Mary's in Georgia to the Saint John's. Nature has there performed most of the work; and had that communication been improved before the commencement of the Florida War, so as to have been used as an avenue through which supplies and reinforcements could have been received, the operations there might have been more efficient, and a large sum would have been saved in the expenditures. I
recommend that appropriations be asked for, and measures adopted, to complete the work as soon as practicable.
If the inland communication were continued South from Saint Augustine to Key Biscayne Bay, the military defence of the Peninsula would be greatly facilitated. The Atlantic coast of Florida is more difficult of, and dangerous to, navigation, than any other part of our coast; and under the most favorable circumstances the supply of all the posts between the two points mentioned is uncertain. The inland communication to which I allude, and which I urgently recommend, can be readily effected, and at comparatively little expense.
Matanzas river could be improved and connected through Grahams Swamp with Halifax river—that river connects with Musquito Lagoon at New Smyrna—neither would require much improvement.” The latter by means of a short canal requiring not more than two locks, might be connected with Indian River. That river extending South to Jupiter inlet, more than a degree and a half of latitude, requires no other improvement than the removal of a few Oyster shoals.
About ten miles south of Jupiter Bay is a lagoon (Bocca Rattone sound)
which could be readily connected with the Bay, and which extends south to Hillsborough Inlet, at least a degree of latitude. From Hillsborough Bay to New River Inlet is not more than ten miles, and between the two points is a lake or pond that could be used in connecting them—From New River Inlet to Key Biscayne Bay is not more than eight or ten miles—they could be connected by a canal, * See post, p. 1023.

or through New River and the Everglades, which approach within two miles of the Bay.
In the event of war with either of the great European powers possessing Colonies in the West Indies, there would be danger of the Peninsula of Florida being occupied by blacks from the Islands—
A proper regard to the security of our Southern States requires that prompt and efficient measures be adopted to prevent such a State of things. Whether the Florida War be terminated during the next Winter or not, I would recommend that measures be immediately taken to erect permanent works at Key Biscayne, Key West, and such other points among the Keys, or on the Peninsula, as on examination may be found to possess the greatest Military advantages. The timely attention of the Government to that important object may save a heavy expense as well as avert the most disastrous consequences.”
I also submit the following extract from my annual report dated the 25" of October 1843, viz:
“Key West, the Dry Tortugas, and Key Biscayne, are the great strategic points on our southern frontier; they should be strongly fortified. Combined with proper naval means, they would command completely the northern entrance into the Gulf of Mexico, and afford better protection to the commerce of the whole West and Southwest, than ten times the force employed at any other points, or in any other way. To render secure our vast possessions, we must pay more attention to the principles of strategy. On that subject we have an admirable lession on the policy adopted and perservered in by Great Britain. That nation, by its positions, held by a comparatively small force, has completely checkmated the globe. The three positions named might be rendered impregnable by an expenditure not exceeding four millions of dollars. They would be worth, in military effect, an expenditure of fifty millions.”
The difficulties which I experienced when directing the operations against the Seminoles in the campaign of 1837–8 in supplying the division of the Army operating south of the Haulover, on the Atlantic side of the Peninsula of Florida, enable me to speak with positive certainty as to the necessity of improving the inland communication from Saint Augustine to Key Biscayne: and circumstances which came to my knowledge during the Summer of 1837, show the impor-

tance of fortifying that Key, as well as the other points named.”
In my conferences with the Indian chiefs in 1837, I ascertained that a constant communication had been kept up between the Seminoles and certain persons in the Bahamas, and that most of the negroes who had eloped from their masters & sought refuge among the Indians previous to the war had been taken from the Peninsula in British vessels. Key Biscayne is so situated as to command both Providence
& Florida Channels, and if fortified would put an end to the communication between the Islanders and the blacks on the Peninsula:
and if in addition the other points named were strongly fortified, we should command completely the outlet from the Gulf of Mexico, through which the greater portion of our exports necessarily pass.”
With high consideration I have the honor to be, Sir, Yr Obt Servt:
TH: S. JESUP Q.M. Genl.
THE HON. J. M. PORTER. Secy of War, Washington City.
[Endorsed] Major General Thomas S. Jesup, Quarter Master General, January 16th, 1844. Reports in obedience to the orders of the War Department, and the resolution of the Senate of the 11th:
instant, on the subject of fortifying the Keys and Islands around Cape Florida, and connecting the waters of Matanzas River and Musqueto Lagoon with Indian River and the Haulover in East Florida, &c, &c.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF ROBERT MYERS AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (APALACHICOLA DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshal's Perm. Comms., Bk. 1]</source>
<place-time>[January 16, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of ROBERT MYERS of Florida I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,”
Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Apalachicola District in Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and

emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said ROBERT MYERS for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission."
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the Sixteenth Day of January in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortyfour and of the Independence of the United States of America the sixty eighth.
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, A. P. UPSHUR Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, x]</source>
<place-time>January 20, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. Enclosed I send you a copy of a letter from R. B. Kerr Esq of the 2" inst:" to the Hon D. Levy, and referred by him to this Office, relative to the frauds alleged to have been committed in the survey of the public lands near Tampa Bay, which were the subject of my communication to you of the 27" Sept last.” Your attention is particularly requested to that part of M" Kerr's letter where it is stated that Mr Prevost made a return of 800 miles in four months from the time of contract, while M' Washington has been out 15 months on a survey of 1000 miles. If this statement is correct, Mr Prevost's surveys may also require examination. You will please report upon the statements made by M. Kerr as soon as convenient, —and I
would also call your early attention to the report requested by me on the 27* Sept last,” that these rumors of errors or frauds in the surveys may at once be put at rest.”
Very respy Your Obt St THO. H. BLAKE Comm”

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN J. ABERT TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:SF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topographical Eng” WASHINGTON Jan' 20" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In reply to so much of the Resolution of the Senate of the 11th instant as has been referred to this Office,” namely, that part which relates to a Rail Road across the isthmus of Florida, I have the honor to report that no surveys for a work of that kind have been made under this Bureau. An estimate for such a Survey was submitted to Congress during its last session, but no appropriation was granted, and in consequence the Bureau is not in possession of the necessary elements for an estimate of the cost of constructing the work. Under these circumstances, I can only present some general but highly probable average of the cost of the road, derived from experience under similar conditions elsewhere.
The work is intended to secure the trade of the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic, from the dangers attending upon its present track, as well as those which emanate from the physical conditions of that track, as those which would be consequent of a state of hostilities with some maratime power. It should therefore be built substantially, of the most suitable materials, and adapted to the immense traffick which will pass over it. The ground is favorable, requiring no serious cutting or embanking, or as is believed, the passing of any difficult swamp; the expenses therefore which usually belong to what is denominated the grading of the road will not be proportionally great;
nor are there any great Rivers to be crossed in the route, or any very extensive Swamps. Under these views it is supposed that the grading of the road will not exceed ten, or be less than eight thousand dollars the mile.
Taking it for granted that suitable timber can be obtained from the forests of Florida, at the mere expenses of felling and preparing it, and assuming the iron rail at a weight of not less than sixty pounds to the running yard, then involving all those considerations of necessary turns out, accidents, and contingencies inseparable from works of this Kind, I do not feel disposed at placing the expenses for this part of the road for a single track at less than nine thousand dollars the mile.
These two items will bring the average cost of the road at from 17
to 19,000 dollars the mile.
It is believed that the best route for the proposed road, will be from Pilatka on the River St Johns, to Fort Fanning on the Suwannee; but

on this subject, I beg leave to be understood as giving an opinion of what is probable with our present information. The route in this direction would be about eighty miles long, which would give for the probable cost of the road, as one or the other of the previous averages per mile be taken, one million three hundred and sixty thousand, or one million five hundred and twenty thousand dollars.
Of course Sir, the foregoing estimate does not involve any of those considerations which belong to wharves, landings, relay or watering houses, depots, magazines &c &c, but is confined to what relates solely to the construction of the road.
The construction of all parts of the road, except that which belongs to the grading or preparation of the soil, being almost purely mechanical, the troops of the United States stationed in Florida, could be employed to advantage only on the grading. And until the amount of labor which will constitute the grading be accurately Known, it is of course impossible to say, what would be the amount of saving in the employment of the troops. It would however be the difference, according to the number of laborers required, between the extra price allowed to the soldier on such duties, about eighteen cents per day, and the price for hired labor in that Country. It may however be proper to remark that the invention of excavating machines, has much reduced the amount of manual labor, heretofore employed on works of this Kind. There is no doubt however, that the employment of the troops would be a great saving to the work, and that the Officers with them would be highly valuable as Assistant Engineers.”
Very respectfully Sir Your Obt Serv"
J. J. ABERT Col. Corps T.E.
HON" J. M. PORTER Secretary of War THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE
</docbody>
<dochead>OF REPRESENTATIVES</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. on Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 537]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE January 23" 1844.—</place-time>
<docbody>HON: J. W. JONES Speaker of the House of Rep"
SIR: In obedience to the Resolution of the House of Representatives adopted on the 10" ins' * requiring the Commissioner of the General

Land Office “to report to this House what cancellation of Permits issued under the act for the occupation of the Florida Peninsula, have been ordered by him, the dates, and other particulars of said Permits, and the grounds upon which they were cancelled”—I have the honor to transmit herewith, Document N° 1 containing the information required;" and also Document N° 2, exhibiting certain cases in the Newnansville District in which the Applicants have failed to comply with the 4" condition and stipulation of the 1"
Section of the Armed occupation Act of the 4"August 1842, requiring them to establish the fact that the settlement has been commenced
&c, and in which the permits, as the law now stands, must also be cancelled."
With great respect Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>January 24, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY., S. G. Tallahassee, Florida.
SIR. I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 16"
Ult: " enclosing a copy of yours of the 17" Oct last * in relation to the designation on the township plats,” of the locations made by virtue of permits granted under the armed occupation law."
By not taking the whole of the instructions from this Office on the subject, and considering them in regular connection with the law, a copy of which was also sent you, the scope and intention of those instructions have not been properly understood.
By acting upon a detached paragraph, which may admit of the construction given to it by you, the whole misconception has occurred.

The intention of this Office has been invariably to restrict the settler to a technical “quarter section”, such being the language of the law, to the 2"Section of which I would particularly call your attention.
That section provides “That in case of the settlement of the same quarter section by two or more settlers the right to the location shall be determined by priority of settlement . . . and the subsequent settler or settlers shall be permitted to locate the quantity, he, she, or they may be entitled to, elsewhere within the same township upon vacant public lands.” If Congress had intended to grant to each settler a location irrespective of the public surveys—the arbitrary choice of the area of a quarter section, certainly this language would not have been used, as there could not possibly have been any occasion for carrying out such a requirement.
Where the surveys were made prior to the settlement, the settler, as you perceive is required to designate “the quarter section” for which he wished a permit.
Where the lands were not surveyed, the settler was to designate his settlement in the clearest manner possible, by reference to some well known place, lake, river &c, and when the surveys reached that settlement, his improvement, field, house, barn &c, were to be indicated in the field notes, & shown on the Official plat of survey by a dotted or serrated line, in the same manner as the ordinary improvements of pre-emptors are designated, showing the extent of the field, location of the house, barn &c, and the quarter section upon which such improvement may be located, is the tract to which the settler is entitled, and to which he must be restricted.
In cases where the improvements of the settler are in different quarter sections, he can elect which of those quarter sections he will take, but if he fail to make such election, the deputy who makes the survey should designate that as his permit on which his main improvements are located, & the “quarter section” thus indicated as his location, should be shaded (not full colored) pink, and have the name of the settler and number of his permit written on it,-the locality &
extent of his field & the position of his house, barn &c, to be exhibited as before directed. The whole proceedings, so far as the surveys are concerned, and the indications on the township maps, will serve as evidence taken on the ground, of the locations, which will aid in finally determining “the quarter section” for which the patent may issue to the settler, & in no case should such locations interrupt the lines of the public surveys.
Where two or more persons are settled upon the same quarter section, that fact should be noted by the Deputy, as directed by me in

the letter of 29" Septr last,” to which I refer you for instructions on this point. It is not probable that the improvements of the settlers under the Armed occupation law, have yet been much extended, or that in a country like Florida, the variation of the lines of the public surveys a few chains East, West, North or South, from the places where the settler would desire to have them run will work any injury to him; and I would regret if it did, but whether or not, the law must be complied with, and if such an extreme case should occur as that assumed by you, the party injured would doubtless obtain relief from Congress.
As you have approved of the mode of surveying these permits indicated by the township plats returned by you, and state that the deputies have returned their work complete in conformity with the instructions received from you, it will be necessary to make a new contract with a Deputy to go into the field and run and mark the section lines which have been interrupted by the survey of those locations. This must be done so far as the work has been returned and approved by you, but where the work has not been completed, supplemental instructions should be sent to the Deputies now in the field, that they may not fall, into the same error. If this work can be done for four dollars per mile, it will be paid for out of the general appropriation for surveying the public lands, but if not, five dollars per mile may be allowed, and it will be paid for out of the special appropriation of 3" March 1837, for detached surveys in Florida.
Enclosed I send you a specimen of the manner in which the locations under the Armed occupation Act" should be laid down on the township plats."
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE SECRE-
</docbody>
<dochead>TARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to Cabinet and Bureaus, Bk. 4]</source>
<place-time>TREASy DEPARTMENT Jany 26" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON. J. M. PORTER Secy of War SIR I have had the honor to receive this morning your letter of the 23" inst,” in relation to the claims of certain holders of bonds issued by the Territory of Florida to the money which may be found

due to that Territory, under the Acts of August 22, 1842" and August 31, 1842" referred to by you.
In reference to the request you make that the accounting officers of the Depart. be directed to expedite the settlement of the Florida claims, it shall be immediately complied with, altho' according to the received construction of the law on this subject, the War Department has the right to urge them to such expedition.
In reference to your request to give you my views in regard to the propriety of paying to the bond holders, on account of those bonds the balance of $7.860 now adjusted and “found due to the Territory of Florida, I beg leave respectfully to say, that while it would give me great pleasure to oblige you, & while I should be very ready to give you any information individually, yet as Secretary of the Treasury I must decline such an interference.
With great respect your Obed" Serv"
J. C. S Secy of the Treasy 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO JOHN BEARD</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT January 26: 1844</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN BEARD Esq. Marshal, Eastern District of Florida, St. Augustine, Florida.
SIR, In answer to your letter of the 12" instant," I transmit herewith authenticated copies of the papers required, and have requested the Solicitor of the Treasury to instruct the District Attorney of the Eastern District of Florida to defend you in the suit for removing Helfer.
J. M. P.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE Comms. to SW and Cong., Bk. 4]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON Jany 30 1844</place-time>
<docbody>THE HONORABLE JAS: M. PORTER Secy of War SIR/ Suffer me to draw your attention to the importance of now making preparations for occupying with Military works Some portions of the Shoals lying west of the Southern extremity of Florida.-
The necessity for Such occupation has long been well understood by those who have reflected on the complete seperation, by the inter-

position of the peninsula, of Florida, of the shores of the Gulf of Mexico from those of the Atlantic; on their distance from the populous portions of the Atlantic Coast, and from the great naval establishments; on the narrowness of the channels—bordered on one Side by a foreign shore—through which all the trade of this great gulf including the immense amount thrown therein by the Mississippi—
must pass; and on other circumstances, unfavorable to Security in time of War, which are peculiar to that region:—this necessity has often been brought to the notice of the Government by persons whose duties were connected with the National defences—and I beg leave to quote on this Subject from a report made by a Board of Officers in Feby 1840, as follows—
“The first positions that present themselves, on doubling around Cape Florida into the Gulf of Mexico, are Key West and the Dry Tortugas.—
“This Board concur in the opinions heretofore expressed in favor of these fine harbors; and they beg leave to refer for very interesting Statements, in relation to the latter harbor especially, to a letter from Commodore Rodgers to the Secretary of the Navy, July 3* 1829–
(Senate document, 1st: Session 21st Congress, Vol 1, N° 1, page 236)
and letter from the Secretary of the Navy, March 25th 1830–(Senate documents, 1st: Session 21st Congress, Vol 2, N° 111, page 1)”
“A naval force designed to control the navigation of the Gulf could desire no better position than Key West or the Tortugas.–Upon the very way side of the only path through the Gulf, it is, at the Same time, well Situated as to all the great points therein.—It overlooks Havana, Pensacola, Mobile, the mouths of the Mississippi, and both the inlet and the outlet of the Gulf.—”
“The Tortugas harbors, in particular, are said to afford perfect shelter for vessels of every class, with the greatest facility of ingress and egress.—And there can be no doubt that an adversary in possession of large naval means would, with great advantage, make these harbors his habitual resort, and his point of general rendezvous and concentration for all operations on this Sea.—With an enemy thus posted, the navigation of the Gulf, by us, would be immenently hazardous, if not impossible; and nothing but absolute naval superiority would avail any thing against him.—Mere military means could approach no nearer than the nearest short of the continent.—
It is believed that there are no harbors in the Gulf at all comparable with these, that an enemy could resort to with larger vessels.—To deprive him of these, would, therefore, be interfering materially with any organized System of naval operations in this Sea.—The defence of these harbors would, however, do much more than this.—It would
563214–62-54

transfer to our own Squadron, even should it be inferior, these most valuable positions; and it would afford a point of refuge to our navy and our commerce, at the very Spot where it would be most necessary and useful.—”
“In this report, already too much extended, we forbear to enlarge on this topic, merely adding that the complete and certain defence will not be difficult.—By occupying two, or at most three, small islands the harbors of the Dry Tortugas—(there being an inner and an outer harbor) may be thoroughly protected.—The works must be adequate to resist escalade, bombardment, and cannonade from vessels, and to Sustain a protracted investment; but as they will not be exposed to any operation resembling a Siege, there can be no difficulty in fulfilling the conditions.—They must have capacious Store-rooms, be thoroughly bomb-proof, and be heavily armed.—”
“The fortifications of Key West Should be of a Similar character.—
“No details can be given until all these positions have been minutely surveyed with reference to defence.—
“The Sum of $3,000,000. was, Some years ago, assumed by the Engineer Department as necessary to provide defences for the Tortugas and for Key West; and this estimate may now be taken as ample.—”
“It may be remarked, as applying to the whole Gulf coast, that, from the relative geographical position of this part of the Sea board, and the country interested in its Safety, from the unhealthiness of the climate, nature of the adjacent country, and mixed character of the inhabitants, it will be some time before that portion within Supporting distance, whose welfare may be endangered by an enemy, will be competent, of itself, to Sustain a serious attack from without.—Upon the Atlantic Sea board, the Alleganies crowd the people down upon the Shore; every important point on the coast being Surrounded by a population dense now, and every day rapidly increasing in numbers;
while the ocean and the interior parallel communications transmit rapid aid to the right and left.—The coast of the Gulf, however, is thinly peopled in itself, is remote from Succor from behind, and is almost inaccessible to lateral assistance.—Those reasons, therefore, which tend to establish the necessity of an organized, permanent, and timely System of defence for the whole Sea board of the United States, apply to this part of it with peculiar force.—”
An estimate for these works was included in the general estimates for fortifications by the Engineer Department at the close of the year
1835.—
It is understood that the necessity for the occupation of one or both of these positions is so generally admitted as not to need discussion

in this place; but under this necessity the following questions arise—
1st:—Will it be necessary to occupy both positions?—If not, 2" which shall be preferred?—3" Is there any other harbor in the reef, or near it, which, deprived of the other two, an enemy might use for his own benefit and to our hurt?
These questions involve many considerations which can be brought satisfactorily and fairly into view—and without the risk of mistake, only by exact and minute Surveys, and my present object is to solicit that these Surveys may be entered upon without delay, in order that the results thereof may be laid before the Board of Engineers for their assistance in Studying out the appropriate means of defence.—
The proper execution of these Surveys will consume not less than a year; and by the time the plans of defence founded on the maps of the Surveys are completed, the fortifications now in progress on the Gulf Shore will have been so far advanced that a portion of the amount the Treas'y can annually afford for fortifications may be applied to the projected works.—
Much time must unavoidably be consumed before the defences upon these Shoals will be completed:—it is desirable, therefore, that none be lost.—
Up to the present time, it has been of still greater moment to put in readiness the immediate defences of the principal objects of attacks:—While New Orleans, Mobile, and Pensacola could, themselves, be reached by the enemy with facility, it would have been unwise to be continuing distant points of contest with him about the trade of the two former places and the naval stores of the other.—But the local defences of these places—especially of New Orleans and Pensacola, are now respectable, and we may begin preparations for works upon their out posts. I have therefore to desire that there may be made, as soon as practicable, with a view to the establishment of permanent defences, the following Surveys—
I. A Survey of the group of islands and Shoals called the Dry Tortugas.—This Survey Should include the whole cluster; and will comprise a Space about 14 miles by 8 miles—A rectangular parallelogram of these dimensions, of which the longest sides would have the direction of about N 59 E. would comprise all that is important—and in Some parts more than is necessary—No Soundings being required beyond the line of Six fathoms.—It is hardly necessary to say that the Survey Should be made with exactness in all respects; and that the map Should exhibit all the information expected from hydrographic maps of the highest character.—Soundings should be very numerous, especially off the Shoals; the depths; below low water written with frequency over every part of the water; the horizontal

curves under water drawn for every half fathom of depth, on those portions of the Shoals that may be occupied for defence, and for every fathom from the edges of the Shoals out to Six fathoms depth.—The islands Should be accurately levelled; and, independently of their delineation on the above mentioned map, there Should be a plan of each on the Scale of one inch to 50 feet, with the horizontal curves drawn thereon for every foot in altitude above low water.—Each of these plans Should contain a Strip of Water Sufficient to indicate positions for landing places; wharves &c—numerous depths being given at those places.—
On every position likely to come under consideration as a Site for a defensive work, whether it be an island or a shol, it would be very desirable to have the facts as to the nature of the foundation—
whether adequate to Sustain heavy walls, or whether piles, or other means, might be necessary.—But this information Should be communicated in a memoir, with any other matter that the Surveying Officer might deem important or interesting in relation to the occupation of this group as a defensive position.—
II.—A Survey of the harbor of Key West. This Survey Should embrace three or four miles in length of the West end of Key West island.—There appears to be a kind of channel running through the main Shoal from the West end of the island, in a northwestwardly direction, into deep water to the north of the Shoal—the Southern portion of which channel is the harbor proper of Key West.—This channel Should be thoroughly Sounded out, as well as all ramifications from it which have any depth:—it is not unlikely that water enough will be found for armed Steamers to enter this channel from the north; and therefore it is essential that all such passages, if more than one, be clearly exhibited.—The Soundings in the channels and bays—indeed in all the deeper water, should be very numerous.—
On the broad Shoals they may be comparatively few—Sufficient, however, to show the exact margins of these Shoals and their continuity.—At the northern end of the channel, the Soundings Should be carried out to four fathoms; and at the Southern expansion, out to five or five and a half fathoms.—Such shoals, or portions of Shoals, as may afford points of defence, Should be minutely Sounded, So as to exhibit a curve for every half fathom below low water.—The deeper water throughout the whole Survey, Should have a curve for every fathom.—
This Survey will be about eleven miles long and about five miles wide.—Should there be any shoals within two or three miles of the Southern mouth of the channel, they should be included.—The general level of the island Should be written in many places, and

the altitude of all the more permanent points.—The Scale of the general map may be Six inches to one mile.—
It is desirable to have, on a Seperate map, by the Same Scale, the whole island of Key West with the harbor at the west end, including the positions for its defence.—Most of this Map will be composed of materials which are also on the general map.—The eastern portion of the island may be Surveyed with less minuteness, but it will be essential to Shew all the circumstances that would bear upon a landing thereon, and the occupation of that part by an Enemy.—There seem to be boat channels at the last end which might favor the landing of troops and Stores—Could a fleet cover such a landing and maintain communication with troops on Shore? Could the progress of troops up the island be effectually resisted with the aid of natural obstacles?—if solet these obstacles be exhibited &c &c.—
III.—A careful reconnoissance.–Gaulds chart of 1773–4 & 5*
Shows no other well sheltered deep-water harbors on or near the Florida Shoals, than those above mentioned.—But this is a point on which there must be no uncertainity.—There are Several reasons why this chart Should not be too implicitly trusted:—important changes may have taken place in the seventy years that have elapsed: important facts may have eluded the notice of the Surveyor, &c,-
But, besides, Shallow-water harbors and channels have their value greatly increased by the use, now a days, of many war vessels of light draught.—There should be, therefore, a general reconnaissance of the whole Florida reef in order to ascertain the actual depth that may be carried into all the harbors and passages—The Chart of Gauld will serve as the basis, and no new chart in lieu thereof will be required unless numerous and important differences are detected.—
Proceeding Westward from Cayo Largo, the reconnoitreing party should examine, in Succession, all the inlets—running, in each, one or more Soundings, as may be found necessary, to ascertain the maximum depth.—Where the depth is sufficient for the Smaller Steam vessels of War—Say two fathoms, the Soundings should extend inward, sufficiently to make the extent of this deeper water;
and where there is a sufficient expanse, and the proper cover to constitute a safe anchorage, a little trigonometry should be applied to the Shoals and shores, so as to correct any errors, or Supply any deficiency in the chart.—Where the facts differ materially from Gauld, a seperate sketch of the harbor or channel should be made.-
51* George Gauld, A chart of the bay and harbor of Pensacola in the province of west Florida (1780). See J. C. Simpson, A Provisional Gazetteer of Florida Place-
Names of Indian Derivation (Fla. Geol. Survey, Spec. Pub. No. 1, Tallahassee, 1959), p. 153, 

The remarks just made apply to the Reef, generally. But there are certain places where still more care and minuteness will be required.—At the West End of the Cow Keys, there seems to be an anchorage which should be examined with attention and, of which it may be advisable to have a sketch.—Bahia Honda is well covered, has a pretty good depth, and is of easy entrance.—This should be very carefully explored, and a sketch made of it: the exploration, moreover, should extend into, and perhaps for the whole length of, the channel represented as running through the Shoal in a N.W.
direction from this harbor; if ten feet water can be carried through this channel at low water, the sketch should embrace the whole.—
To the North of Saragold Key there is a pretty good depth; it will be necessary to ascertain whether there is, in fact, no better access to that deep water than the chart exhibits.—Should a passage ten or twelve feet deep be discovered, a sketch should be made of the harbor. The Boca Grande passage through the Shoal is represented as affording a draught of nearly, if not quite, three fathoms;—and unless there has been a material change for the worse since Gaulds time, this passage demands particular notice.—Of this whole passage there should, at any rate, be a Seperate Sketch.
The Sketches mentioned might be conveniently made on a Scale of two inches to one mile.—
Should there be material corrections to make to Gaulds chart, a new chart should be formed by copying from Gauld all excepting the corrected portions which should be introduced in the proper places—using Gaulds Scale.*—
It is probable that the Sketches, the Memoir, and the chart, of this reconnaissance may suffice for the objects now in view, without any other Surveys than those before requested.—But should good water be found into any of the harbors already known, a new harbor of good depth be discovered, some additional Surveys may be necessary.—It would be well, therefore, to have the results of the reconnaissance reported at as early a day as practicable.—It must be needless to say that the existence or non existence of other good harbors in the reef bears directly upon the question of the proper selection of defensive points.”—
I have the honor &c JOS: G. TOTTEN Col &c

</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[January 31, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas, the direct road leading from Tampa Bay to Pilatka, a distance of about One hundred and fifty miles, over which the mail must eventually pass, being the only direct route through that section of country, and well adapted to facilitate a communication from Tampa Bay with Charleston, Savannah, and divers other Northern Ports, is at this times, rendered impassable in consequence of the decayed state of bridges across the small Creeks on said road.
Be it therefore resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, that the Honorable David Levy our Delegate, be requested to use his best endeavors to obtain from Congress an appropriation of ten thousand dollars for the repair of the aforesaid road.
Be it further resolved, that as soon as the foregoing preamble and resolution shall have been passed and signed by the proper officers, a certified copy of the same be forthwith forwarded to our Delegate in Congress.
Adopted by the House 31 January 1844
H ARCHER Secty H* Rep.
Adopted by the Senate, 13" February 1844
THO: BROWN Sect” Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Resolution of the Governor & Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida in favour of an appropriation of ten thousand dollars for the improvement of the road from Tampa Bay to Pilatka. March 13, 1844 Refer" to the Committee on Roads
& Canals * March 28. 1844. Disch" & to lie M Levy *
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS HARTLEY CRAWFORD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Report Book 4]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT Office Indian Affairs [January 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>HON J. M. PORTER Secretary of War SIR, A Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 10"
instant * has been referred by you to this office. It is thus worded

“Resolved—that the President of the United States be requested to inform the Gaited House under what arrangements the Indians at present at Florida remain there—whether any, and what steps are in progress for their removal under the treaty of Payne's Landing,”
—whether any trading houses have been established or are contemplated to be established for their use—whether any compensation is paid to any one as Indian Agent or Commissioner in Florida—Whether any annuity or presents have been allowed to any of the Indians now in Florida—and what part of the public domain in Florida has been surrenderd to the exclusive occupation of said Indians, the area and boundaries thereof; and whether said occupation is unconditional or for a definite period, and upon stipulated terms”
Upon this Resolution I have the honor to report, that the requirement of the first clause of the same is not answerable by reference to the files of the Indian Office, at which no communication showing the terms on which the Seminole pacification was ultimately arranged, has ever been received. But, and this leads me to the 2" and 4"
clauses of the Resolution, which from their near relation in matter will be most properly answered together—it is not believed that any arrangement exists which should interfere with the measures that the Dep" has been and still is pursuing to accomplish, at the earliest day practicable, the removal of the entire Indian population of Florida to the new homes assigned them in the west.
The number so far removed is 3824, of which 212 went off during the last year. How many still remain is not certainly known but they are not thought to be numerous. The business of Emigration is under the immediate charge of L.G. Capers who was appointed disbursing and emigrating agent of the Seminoles east on the 6"
February, ’41, at a compensation of $5 per day, with allowance for
“necessary travelling expenses.” His last report in relation more particularly to the emigration represents its progress as slow—the Indians coming in for enrolment only in very small and occasional parties—but he expresses that by the close of the year a sufficiently large party would be prepared to start, and this period having passed, the next intelligence may perhaps enable me to state that the emigration is very nearly or fully closed."
The 3" clause of the Resolution inquires whether any trading houses have been established &c. No such houses are known to exist; no instructions for their establishment have emanated from this office; and none are at this time contemplated

No “annuity” has ever “been allowed to any of the Indians now in Florida,” and this is the only inquiry of what remains of the Resolution to which the information of this office enables me to frame an answer. If any presents have been allowed, the evidence is it will probably be found in the Office of the 2"Auditor, amongst the accounts of those to whom the disposal of the public funds was confided As to the extent and geographical description of the “public demain in Florida surrendered to the Hadiahs exclusive occupation of the Indians”
(if any) and the stipulated terms and conditions of said occupancy, I do not know where the information is to be sought, unless in the office of the Adjutant General, to which it is presumed the reports of the Officer commanding in Florida, were addressed.
T.H.C.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. CRAWFORD TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Report Book 4]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT Office Indian Affairs February 2” 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON J. M. PORTER Secretary of War SIR, My reflections have for Some time tended to the impression, that a longer continuance of our agency of enrolment and emigration amonst the Seminoles east was becoming unnecessary or certainly that the expense of maintaining it was quite incommensurate with any advantage to the public Service to be thence derived; and my recent consideration of the subject while engaged in preparing an answer to a call of the Senate relative to Seminole affairs, has strengthened this impression into conviction Since February last no party of emigrants has left Florida, and the latest official accounts from our agent, and the latest official accounts from our in relation particularly to emigration, represent the Indians as coming in for enrolment only in very small and occasional parties.
Since then, Sometime in July, we have received no report—and it may be presumed that the agent has been disappointed in his expectation as communicated to this office, that by the close of the year, he would have mustered a party sufficiently large for removal. Under such indications of indifference to immediate emigration on the of the Seminoles, with whom it is not contemplated to exercise coercion;
and considering that the number of those still lingering in Florida, though unascertained, cannot be large, it does not seem that hereafter the preparations for their removal can be so active as to justify the retention of a distinct agent, or to demand any Service that cannot, without onerous imposition, be transferred to the military I would therefore respectfully recommend, that the further efforts to emigrate the Indians now in Florida, be committed to the military

stationed in that Territory—that the services of Mr L. G. Capers be dispensed with as no longer necessary, that he be directed to hand over the funds in his hands to the Commanding officer in Florida, and that the latter be instructed by the Adjutant General in the premises.”
T. H. C.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO MATTHEW ARBUCKLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 20]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Feb. 6" 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL M. ARBUCKLE Comdg 1" Dept. New Orleans Bks.
Louisiana SIR; Your letter of the 23" ultimo " transmitting the report of Major Brown, 7" Infantry, relative to Indian outrages near St.
Andrews' Bay, West Flo." has been laid before the General-in-Chief, who directs me to say that, without reference to higher authority, troops should have been at once detached to hunt up the Indian murderers, and the party to which they belong; and he is surprized, upon Major Brown's failure to do so, that he was not immediately instructed by you to this effect. The time lost by the double reference may be serious, and is strange. It is the expectation of the General that the most energetic measures will speedily be taken by you, to secure this band of marauders, supposed to be refugee Creeks, and to send them off to the West; and he desired that such instructions be now given to Major Brown as will prevent a recurrence of such delays as have characterized the procedure in the present instance."
I am Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U.S. Attys. and Clks. (Fla.): LS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office St AUGUSTINE Feby 6 * 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. There are two indictments now pending here against David L. Palmer & two against Darius Ferris; one against Each for Cutting Live oak timber, on the Public lands at Musquito & one against each

for removing Such timber from the same Public lands after it had been Cut; and also one Suit against each (which was instituted in pursuance of the most positive directions of H L Thistle Esq Agent for the Preservation of Live Oak timber &" in East Florida: Since the finding of these indictments & the Commencement of these Suits, the Secretary of the Navy (has as I am informed) Authorised the Defendants (who Compose the firm of Palmer & Ferris which firm is or lately was a Contractor with the Government for Supplying Live Oak timber for Naval Purposes) to Ship the Said timber, they Paying the Government Such Price therefor, as it was worth before it was Cut:
The Collector of this Port has been directed to Clear Such vessel as might take Said timber away: & Messrs Palmer & Ferris have accordingly Shipped it:" this according to my view of the Matter, Should be a bar (or put a Stop) to the Proceedings against them here for Cutting the same timber unless there was Some Stipulation to the Contrary. it Seems to be a compromise of the whole matter and as it is of some importance, and I am not advised whether there was any Such Stipulation or reservation I take the liberty to ask that you ascertain what is the fact as to any Stipulations that these proceedings Should go on; and if there was none; that you instruct me how I
ought to Proceed in relation to these Suits, and Indictments"
With great respect, I am Sir, Your ob" Serv"
THO DOUGLAS
C. B. PENROSE Esq So' U. S. Treasury City of Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Letter Thomas Douglas. U. S. Atty. St. Augustine, E.
Florida. February. 6, 1844. Indictments v. Palmer & al. for cutting ship timber &"Ans" March. 15” 1844,” inclosing the correspondence received on the 14" from the Navy Dpt Rec" Feb. 13" 1844.
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF 28 Cong., 1 sess.: DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 6, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas, a large number of emigrants have located themselves on Lake Worth, Jupitor Narrows and Indian River, on the southern coast of Florida—And whereas great embarassments are encountered

by those emigrants in the want of a safe communication to remove their goods and chattels from their former homes, the navigation of the coast of Florida generally being considered dangerous. And whereas, the encouraging the settlement of that portion of the Territory bordering on the Atlantic, is of vast importance to the General Government in a humane as well as military point of view—And whereas, with the assistance of the Government, an Inland water communication can be opened from the city of St. Augustine to Cape Florida by a few miles of Canaling which, in time of war, would be invaluable for the purpose of transporting troops and munitions of war to various points on the exposed frontier of Florida, and in the meanwhil afford to the emigrant every facility for settling "–
Be it therefore Resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That our Delegate in Congress be, and he is hereby requested, to lay this subject in its proper light before Congress, and urge upon that body the propriety of appropriating immediately a sufficient sum for cutting a Canal between the head waters of the Matanzas River and Smith's Creek, a distance estimated at about ten miles—and between the head waters of Mosquito South Lagoon, and Indian River, a distance of seven hundred and twenty five yards"—also between the South prong of Jupiter River and Lake Worth, a distance of about one mile—
Be it further Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing preamble and Resolutions be duly authenticated and forwarded to the Hon. David Levy, and by him to be laid before Congress—
Adopted by the House 6" February 1844
H ARCHER Secty H* Rep Adopted by the Senate 7" Feby 1844
THO: BROWN Secty Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Resolutions of the Governor and the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida in favour of an appropriation for the Contruction of a canal between the Head Waters of Matanzas River an Smiths Creek, in said Territory. March 13" 1844." Refr"
to the Committee on Roads & Canals. March 28. 1844" disch" &
to lie M Levy

SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE TERRI-
TORIAL SENATE
[FSL:Exec. Let. Bk.: M**]
SECRETARY'S OFFICE February 7" 1844
HON: GEO. WALKER President of the Senate SIR, In answer to the Resolution adopted by the Senate on the
24" ultimo,” I have to state that the books and pamphlets belonging to the Territory have been collected, wherever found, and arranged in appropriate places in my office. I had no opportunity during the past Summer, of having any of them bound, as the only book bindery in town, belonging to P. A Hayward Esq, was destroyed in the fire of May last—It has been recently replaced however, and if I
can make any arrangement Satisfactory to M* Hayward, for the payment of the work, I will have such pamphlets and public documents bound, during the approaching Summer, as may be deemed worthy of the expense.
I have not, as yet, had leisure sufficient, to make out a list of the public books, documents &c, in my office, but will endeavour to furnish the Senate with this information in as short a time as possible.
The Act of the Legislative Council, relating to the distribution of the laws of this Territory, approved 13th Feb'y 1831,” and to which I beg leave to refer the Senate, has made provision to meet, in a corresponding spirit, the courtesy extended to this Territory by the different States of the Union, in forwarding copies of their laws &c. It is to be presumed that the Executive of the Territory, under whose authority our laws are distributed, has caused the directions of the above mentioned Act to be followed, and that no farther actions, in relation to this subject, is required on the part of the Legislature.
It is frequently important that the members of the Legislative Council, should have access to the Revised Codes of the different States, as matter of reference. With but few exceptions, the State laws in my office, are contained in pamphlets, the numbers of which are incomplete. I would, therefore, respectfully suggest for the consideration of the Senate, the propriety of authorizing the Sec'y of the Territory to transmit to the Secretary of State of each State of the Union, a copy of DuVal's compilation, with the request that the Territory may be furnished, in return, with a copy of the Revised Statutes of each State."
I am, very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL

</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.: DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 7, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas the settlement of Pilatka, and the country in its vicinity is rapidly increasing in population and commerce: And Whereas it is indispensibly necessary for the convenience of the numerous settlers that a road should be opened, leading from the S" Johns river opposite Pilatka, and running through the Deep Creek settlement, it being the nearest route, to the City of Saint Augustine, combining the advantages of a road for transportation, and the convenience of a direct mail, therefore Be it resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, that our Delegate in Congress be, and he is hereby requested to use his best exertion to obtain an appropriation of ten thousand dollars for the opening of said road.
Be it further resolved that as soon as this preamble and resolution be passed and signed by the proper Officers, a certified copy of the same be forthwith forwarded to our Delegate in Congress.
Adopted by the House 7" February 1844
H ARCHER Secty H* Rep Adopted by the Senate 15 February 1844
THO: BROWN SecY Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Resolutions of the Governor an the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida in favour of an appropriation of the Sum of ten thousand dollars for the Construction of a road from the St Johns river opposite Pilatka to the City of Saint Augustine.
March 13" 1844 Refer" to the Committe on Roads & Canals" March
28 1844 Disch" & to lie "Mr Levy 
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL </dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[February 7, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Resolved by the Governor & Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida That Congress be earnestly requested to pass a law establishing a Chamber of Commerce at Key West, with plenary powers. to act decide & award, in Cases of Salvage, and other matters refered to them, and that our Delegate in Congress be requested to urge Speedily and earnestly on Congress the passage of such a Law.

Resolved, that a Copy of these resolutions be certified and Transmitted to the Hon" David Levy as Soon as practicable A true Copy from the Journal of the House of Representatives of the Legislative Council of Florida H ARCHER Secty H* Rep.
TALLAHASSEE Fl" 7 February 1844.
[Enclosure]
Petition to the Legislative Council by Inhabitants of Key West
[No date, 1844]
Whereas small cases of Salvage frequently Occur, on the Florida Reef, during the temporary and necessary absence of the Judge of the District, and for want of a tribunal to adjudicate the Same, the expences, of Storage consumes, nearly the total value, of the property saved, And in other cases the amount of property saved, barely compensates the expences, of recourse to a suit in admiralty—Therefore we the undersigned would Respectfully urge upon the Legislative Council of Florida, the propriety of adopting such measures as may tend to the releif of the Sufferers in the Premises Alexander Patterson * Simeon Frow George E. Weaver Philip J. Fontane R. H. Watson Joseph Stickney Silas Allen Solomon Tift John P. Baldwin R. W. Cussans J. Y. Porter W. C. Malony James Filor G. L. Bonne John W. Porter Gilbert Beebe E. P. Hunt John D. Wood J. M. Lull Robert Haley.
C. C. Lampher John P. Page E. Doubleday Crawford Thompson Benjamin Sawyer B. H. Sprague J. L. Blodgett Frederick Filor Wm. Curry John Thomas John Curry E. N. Page Wm Richardson C. F. Thompson H. W. Benners James Davis P. A. Gondolpo Henry Cold L. A. Hopkins S* Rock Jose Silver R. L. Hicks Ezra Harris A. S. Patterson W" A. Russell

C. M. Johnson Wm. H Rodgers Sam O. Tift Thomas Brown William F English Benedict Guy John H. Gieger Alfred Collins W. C. Greene William H. Bethel O. I. Noyes Samel. Sanderson Francis Watlington Geo. W. McCrea George Eldridge Jun" J. S. Tiriax Richard Roberts Asa F. Tift Christian Boyé Salsbury Haley John J. Sands Wm A. Pitcher John Tobey Geo. W. Somerandyck Robert Hall F. A. Mabrity W. H. Shaw Benj" Meegin Geo. Alderslade George Stafford Hiram Benner Thomas Tate Lem Foster O. T. Beaman Joseph H. Conckling Erastus D Beaman Samuel Harvey Joseph Ximenez E. D. Dexter Francisco Arnaux W. H. Wall John Park C. Curtis Theodore Short James W. Ogden E A Folker Dennis W. Kelly H* A Delespine
[Endorsed] Florida Petition from the Inhabitants of the City of Key West with resolutions attached 1845. Feby. 28.” Refd. to Com on Commerce on motion of Mr Davis Ky refered to committee On COmmerce
[Endorsed on Cover] Florida Memorial of the Citizens of Key West and resolutions of the Legislative Council of Florida praying Congress to establish a Chamber of Commerce at Key West with powers to act decide and award in cases of salvage and other matters referred to them Feby 28.1845 Referred to the Committee on Commerce.
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[February 9, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas there are several public lots in the City of St Augustine not required for Military purposes: and Whereas the sixteenth

Sections which by law have been reserved for School purposes are entirely valueless and utterly inadequate to carry out the benificent object intended by Congress of imparting instruction to the youth of our Territory Be it therefore resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida that our Delegate in Congress be requested to use his best exertions to obtain from Congress a donation to the Free School of the City of S*Augustine the public lots in said City not absolutely required for Military purposes.
Be it further resolved that a Copy of the above preamble and resolution properly Certified be forwarded to our Delegate in Congress with as little delay as possible Adopted by the House 9 February 1844
H. ARCHER Secty H* Rep:
Adopted by the Senate 15 Feb” 1844
M O: BROWN Sect, Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Resolutions of the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida in favour of an appropriation of Public lots in the City of St. Augustine to the Free School in said City. March 13th 1844 Referd to the Committee on Territories"
</docbody>
<dochead>M Levy THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO JOHN R. PETERS</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIV.]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 10" Feb 1844</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN. R. PETERS Esq" New York.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 20" of January " and that of the 5" instant,” respecting the Florida archives—The documents to which you refer have been before offered to the Government and their purchase declined. It is believed that transcripts of the most important papers belonging to the Florida Archieves are already possessed by this Government, and I am not aware that any are at present needed—
I am, Sir respectfully Your Obedient Servant A. P. UPSHUR

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>February 13, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Eq S. G. Tallahassee Florida SIR. Your communication of the 20" Ult: has been received,”
enclosing a letter from B. F. Whitner J Esq. relative to the Survey of Lands adjoining M" Whitner's Contract,” and recommending that about 250 miles of those lands be ordered for Survey. In answer I have to state, that having already ordered Surveying on the Atlantic border to the whole amount of the funds appropriated, upon your recommendation & that of the Delegate from Florida,—
and the request of the Navy Department, this Office cannot extend those orders at present, so as to embrace other lands, as an anticipation of appropriation will not, in any case, be authorized or sanctioned.”
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE Communications to SW and Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON 15th Feby 1844</place-time>
<docbody>THE HONORABLE J. M. PORTER Secy of War SIR/ On the 22" March 1842* I had the honor to submit to the consideration of your predecessor the propriety of obtaining the sanction of the President of the United States to the transfer of the site of Fort Barrancas, Pensacola harbor, from the Navy to the War Department.—
A plat of the land in the neighborhood of the Navy yard, embracing the site of Fort Barrancas and its dependencies, which had been reserved in 1838 for public purposes, accompanied by communication.—Upon the plat, the ground required to be thus transferred was distinctly marked, and the proposed boundaries between the Naval and Military tracts was also designated.—
Should Congress during its present Session make the appropriations that have been asked for Fort Barrancas, it will be advisable to commence the construction of the outwork designed in addition, chiefly for the defence or the Navy yard, the approaching Season, and it would be desirable to have previously the controul of the necessary ground.-

There are private claims to certain lots included within the limits of the tract proposed to be transferred to the War Department, on some of which the claimants now reside, and which I wish to have examined and disposed of as soon as practicable and am only waiting for the transfer of the land.—
I beg to refer to my letter of the 22" March 1842 and the Map which accompanied it for further information.”—
I am, Very Respy &c JOS. G. TOTTEN Col &c 
</docbody>
<dochead>HARMON KELLY TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, HR 28 A–F 23: ALS]</source>
<place-time>PENSACOLA Feby 15" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR, permit me to hand to you herewith enclosed a Petition to Congress for relief of the Securities for duty on Rail Road Iron imported by Mess" Davis Brooks & Co of New York,” or the Alabama Florida and Georgia Rail Road Company which I beg you will present, and use your influence to carry into effect—
Cetirfied Copies of the original Certificates in form as required by the Act of Congress for the Iron laid down at the North, you will receive herewith, the originals are in the possession of Mess" Davis Brooks & Co., which can be sent to you by these Gentlemen if required by informing them that they are necessary, the Certified Copies were sent to me to avoid the risk of loss by Mail of the originals.
the Department being informed that the Iron was in progress laying down altho the time allowed by the Act of Congress had expired directed the Collector not to prosecute the suit to Judgement, —
Since that time a change in the Department has been made, the Certificates herewith was presented to the present Comptroller, and objected to upon the ground that the Iron was laid down after the expiration of the time allowed by the Act of Congress, and he was not authorized to renew them the Suit against the Securities for the Ba'
of duty $13586, is now pending, it is to be hoped and believed that under the circumstances Congress will grant the relief asked for—
I beg leave to refer you to the Petition for further particulars in relation to the Subject, and allow me to ask your attention to the business—
Very Respectfully Your Obed Serv"
HARMON KELLY
THE HONB DAVID LEVY Washington D, C, * Reply, if any, not found.

860 T E A R H TO R J A L PA P E R S [Addressed] the Honb" David Levy House of Representatives Washington D, C, VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General TALLAHASSEE February 16" 1844</place-time>
SIR I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 24” Ulto * (on the subject of permits) and in conformity with the instructions therein contained, forward herewith the contract of M. A. H. Jones Deputy Surveyor (together with a copy of his special instructions) who is commissioned to connect all lines of public Surveys through any permits which may now interrupt them, his special instructions are full and he has been furnished with correct copies of plats of all the Townships in which such interruptions exist; in all about thirty six miles—hoping this may meet with your approbation.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr obdt Servt V. Y. CONWAYS" Gl THOMAS H. BLAKE Esq Commissioner Gen' Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Florida 16" Feb. 1844 W. Y. Conway S.
Gen' Ack" the receipt of Comm” letter of 24” Ult” (on the subject of permits) & in conformity with instructions therein contained, forwards the contract of Mr A.H. Jones Dep’ Surv" together with a copy of his special instructions. Ackd 28 Feby 1844 * file John Wilson Feby 26/44
[Enclosure: DS]
Surveying Contract of A. H. Jones
[February 15, 1844]
Articles of Agreement made and entered into this fifteenth day of February—One Thousand Eight Hundred and Forty Four, between Valentine Y. Conway Surveyor General of the United States for the Territory of Florida acting for and in behalf of the United States of the one part and A. H. Jones with Securities of the other part witnesseth that the said–A.H. Jonesfor and in consideration of the Covenents hereinafter expressed, doth hereby agree with the said Valentine Y. Conway in his capacity aforesaid that the said A. H. Jones—will in his own proper person do

and perform the following surveying agreeably to the laws of the United States and the instructions both General and Special which are herewith given by the said Surveyor General and made to form a part of this agreement to wit, Thirty Six Miles on the Peninsula of Florida, more particularly described on the Accompanying Diagram and the Special instructions aforesaid. All of which the said A.H.
Jones—binds himself to execute according to the instructions both General and Special as aforesaid in the Space of Six Months from the date hereof and return the Same in manner and form as is prescribed therein to the Office of the Surveyor General under the penalty of forfeiting and paying to the United States the sum of Four hundred dollars if default be made in any of the foregoing Conditions. And the said Valentine Y Conway Surveyor General as aforesaid acting for and in behalf of the United States as aforesaid Covenants to pay to the said A.H. Jones—on his completion of the work as aforesaid the sum of Five dollars—per Mile as a full compensation for every Mile and part of a Mile, that shall be actually Surveyed under this contract (Random lines & offsetts excepted).
In testimony whereof the parties to this agreement have hereby set their hands and Seals the day and year aforesaid—
V. Y. CONWAY S G* Seal A.H. JONES Seal JOS. B. LANCASTER Seal E. K. WALKER Seal Signed Sealed and Delivered In presence of A.A. NUNES GEOM"KAY
I A. H. Jones do solemnly swer that I will well and truly and faithfully perform the duties of Deputy Surveyor of the United States Lands in my own proper person or under my immediate personal superintendence and direction to the best of my skill and ability and according to the laws of the United States and the instructions of the Surveyor General—So help me God A. H. JONES
Sworn and Subscribed to before me this 17* day of Febry. 1844.
SAM SIBLEY Justice of the Peace Leon Co. Fla.
[Endorsed] Contract with A.H. Jones Deputy Surveyor to Survey lines thro’ permits—Contract closed—Surveys paid for as per Wo.
No. 6, 2" qr, 1844.
[Enclosure.]
Valentine Y. Conway to A. H. Jones
(Copy) Office of the Surveyor General Tallahassee Owing to some vagueness in the terms of the Armed Occupation Law, together with a misconception of the views of the department

in relation thereto, as conveyed in the letter of the Commissioner of the General Land Office of the 24" Sept 1842.” the permits located under the provisions of that act were surveyed as they have been located by the settlers, many of them without any regard to the section lines, intersecting and interrupting these lines, which as appears from a review of the whole matter, is not in accordance with the wishes of the Department; you are therefore requested to go over district *D (Surveyed by Mr L.M. Prevost) and district

may be located, is the tract to which the settler is entitled; and to which he must be restricted. In cases where the improvements of the settler are in different quarter Sections, he can elect which of those quarter Sections he will take; but if he fail to make such selection, the deputy who makes the survey should designate that as his permit, on which his main improvements are located, and the quarter Section thus indicated as his location, should be shaded (not full coloured)
pink, and have the name of the settler, and number of his permit written on it;—the locality and extent of his field, and, the position, of his house, barn &c to be exhibited as before directed. The whole proceedings so far as the Surveys are concerned, and the indications on the Township Maps, will serve as evidence taken in the ground of the locations, which will aid in finally determining the quarter section for which the patent may issue to the settler, and in no case should such location interrupt the lines of public surveys. Where two or more persons are settled upon the same quarter section, that fact should be noted by the deputy.” You must require of the settler in writing—the designation of the quarter section he selects as his permit. In addition to the foregoing you are herewith furnished with a copy of the Act of 4" of August 1842,” together with a copy of the General Instructions of this office. This work will require the exercise of all your energies to execute with accuracy. You will therefore make yourself perfectly familiar with your General &
Special Instructions together with the provisions of the Act above alluded to which you are required strictly to conform.
As an attempt had been made to bring into disrepute the recent Surveys, You are requested to examine closely (and make report to this office) of as many of the lines in this district as will enable you satisfactorily to conclude whether the Surveys made by M"
Prevost and Mr Weightman in these districts were actual and accurate Surveys executed in conformity with their oaths & Instructions or whether they are “Sham surveys” for which false notes have been returned. This duty is required of you not from any doubts resting on my own mind, but to disabuse the mind of the Commissioner of the General Land Office on this subject to whom insinuations of this kind have been made.
Very Respectfully Yr. Obdt Servt
(Signed) V. Y. CONwAY
Mr A.H. JONES Deputy Surveyor

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. re Lands:ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office S*AUGUSTINE Feby 17* 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith enclose to you a report of Suits instituted by me on behalf of the United States since the date of my last report;"
Late in September, or early in October last a letter was written by Gov" Duval & myself to M Campbell our Consul at Havanna," on the subject of a Commission, which had been taken out by the Claimants & Sent to that City to take testimony in the cases of the Heirs of F. M. Arredondo for 50.000 acres of land; the Heirs of F. M. Arredondo & M E Levy for 256000 acres; & the Heirs of J M Arredondo for 40.000 acres;—giving to M" Campbell, who had been named as one of the Commissioners, some information & instructions on the Subject. This letter was prepared while I was still convalescent, but very feeble from the effects of the attack of Congestive fever, (which I before mentioned to you) and was mailed by the Gov' & directed via Charleston S.C. but we have received no reply from him; The Gov" who is now absent, informed me that he had enclosed to you a Copy of this letter suggesting the propriety of your forwarding to M" Campbell a copy of it from your office, to guard against a possible failure of the original to reach him; As the term of the Court is approaching at which those cases are set for trial & the Claimants have lately employed a gentleman, (one Doc" Haley I believe,) who was going from S” Augustine to Havanna to attend to & cause that Commission to be executed—I feel much Solicitude on the Subject
& therefore take the liberty to enquire if a copy of that Communication was sent from your office to the Consul, and if it was, whether you have any information from him relating to the matter. I did not know that the gentleman mentioned was going to Havanna until after he had left for that place, or I should have written by him to M. Campbell again on the Subject.".
With great respect I have the Honour to be, Sir Yours &c THO DOUGLAS
C. B. PENROSE Esq." Sol U.S. Treasury City of Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] T. Douglass Es St. Augustine Feb 17, 1844 Relative to Florida land claims &"—

</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 2 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 21,1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representative of the Territory of Florida, That the Petitions of our fellow Citizens in the County of Dade, be forwarded by our Secretary, forthwith to our Delegate in Congress, The Honourable David Levy, requesting his earlies attention to the Same desiring him to use his best exertions to procure for them a post office, and port of Entry at their County Site”—Be it further Resolved That the Honourable David Levey our Delegate in Congress, be requested in like Manner to use his exertions to procure a Suitable Appropriation to assist our fellow Citizens in the County of Dade, to erect a Court house and Jail, at their County Site, on the Miami, Cape Florida.—
(A true Copy) H ARCHER Sect, Ho Rep—
Tho: BROWN Sect, Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Resolutions of Legisl. Council for port of entry on Miami river &" Feb 21. 1844, ref" to Com. on Commerce" (No
178.) Levy PETITION TO CONGRESS BY THE INHABITANTS OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TERRITORY</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 21, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress—
Your petitioners would respectfully state, That on or about the fifth day of October One Thousand eight hundred and forty two, Mr Latham Babcock, the Keeper of the Light on Dog Island, lost a large quantity of goods and effects by the washing away of the House of the Keeper of the Light in a gale–A portion of the Light House also fell during the Same gale–That your petitioners believe, the loss of M"
Babcock above stated was owing in a great degree to the imperfect Construction of the Light and dwelling houses, and they pray that requisite remuneration may be made M' Babcock by your Honorable Bodies—And your petitioners &c—
E. B. Whitmarsh Wm S Damerel James A Aborn A. L. Clements Robert Myers H. W. Brooks J Day & Co J. B. Carr

J C Mailley William G. Porter J. M. Harris A. Wylie B. G. Ropes H. W. Van Veghten HW Terry William Pratt B. T. Caro Ja” G. Hurd Thos H. Smith Green & Connery John Peters Cha" F. Tomlinson Donald Campbell C H. Austin Henry G. Guyon Henry Hodges W. A. Wood W. G. M. Davis H. M. Farrier William Vallian R H Goodlett Wm C Dickinson J. L. Barber Jno W Rinaldi Geo. S. Hawkins Joshua Grant B. S. Hawley Benj" Hurd Geo W Haight Stephen D. Hadley William Foster Chas H. Coffin W. H. Hughes Thos Skolfield J. H. Hartshorne Samuel B. Kinney Saml W. Spencer Wm. HOW
Tho" L. Mitchel B. Ellison Colin Gardner N. C. Robbins A. N. McKay Jno T Myrick List of articles lost by Latham Babcock during the gale of October
1842.—
A Boat, (Sail Boat) government having none fit for use $75.00
Small one d” (tender) 35.00
4 feather beds 75.00
1 Rifle gun 6.00
1 Double barrelled gun 35.00 Bedding 85.00
Furniture 125.00
Crockery 55.00
Iron Ware 25.00
Shades for Windows 15.00
Poultry & hogs 150.00
Provisions 145.00
1 Chest Carpenters tools 75.00 Clothing for Self, wife & Child 140.00
FRANKLIN COUNTY SS: Latham Babcock duly sworn says, That the above Statement is Correct and true.
LATHAM BABCOCK

Sworn & Subscribed before me this 11" January 1844.
HW TERRY J. P.
[Endorsed] Florida Pet for compensation to Latham Babcock for property lost by destruction of Light House on Dog Island Feb 21.
1844, ref" to com” on Commerce.” (No 176) June 7, 1844 vs. & to lie" Report against & lie on the table Levy.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, x]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE February 22, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY S. G. Tallahassee Flor:
SIR. Application has been made to this Office for an order for the Survey of 6000 Acres, of the claim of Stephen D. Fernandez, confirmed by the decision of the Supreme Court of the U States at the January Term 1836,-Peter's Reports Vol: 10. P303. In the Report of the Commissioners for ascertaining land claims in East Florida,—State papers, Public lands, Vol 3, p. 687, this tract is described as situated
“about Cooley's hammock on the North East of Ray's trail.” I declined ordering the Survey of this claim at this time, for the reason that the Surveying funds would be exhausted by the orders already issued, but as it was represented to be of the utmost importance to the present owners of this claim that it should be immediately Surveyed, and that those owners were willing to incur the expense and only desired the Survey to pass through the usual Channels that it might be regarded as official, I have consented to order it upon the Condition that the expense should be paid by the owners of the claim.
You will therefore appoint a Deputy in whose skill and integrity you have the utmost confidence, and have the claim located in accordance with the instructions heretofore transmitted giving notice to the parties and advising the Deputy that he must look to those owners for his compensation upon the approval of his work, requiring from him the affidavit heretofore prescribed, of the correctness of his field notes.
If there is a Deputy residing in the neighborhood of this land, to whom you could entrust the location of the claim, it would be expedient to employ him, in order that the parties may not be put to any needless expense.”
Very respectfully Your Obt S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, x]</source>
<place-time>February 23, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY &c SIR. Enclosed I send you a copy of a letter from John Pickell Esq to the Adjutant General,” and by him referred to this Office. Mr Pickell describes the location of two Saline Rivulets, to the existence of which it would be expedient to call the attention of the Deputy, when the contract is given out for Surveying the region of country in which those Rivulets are situated.
The fact of those rivulets being noted on the Township plats would probably cause a much higher price to be paid for the adjacent land, than if their existence was not indicated.”
Very respy Your Ob"S"
</docbody>
<dochead>THO. H. BLAKE Comm VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor General. TALLAHASSEE. Feby 24” 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to inform you that the Archives of this Office are now on the Waggons, and in a few minutes will be on the way to S” Augustine; My self and my deputies will accompany them over the road, and I hope to be established at our new location & be in full operation in about two weeks"—I send you per mail a paper containing the announcement of the removal of the office. I have been detained here much longer than was my first intention from'a"desire to comply with an inplied request of yours, to wit, that I would give MajJ.B. Clements a contract for surveying—He was requested to come to this place on the 12" Dec last and being assured by many of his friends here that he would certainly accept I have delayed until now expecting his arrival.—but I have not even had an answer to my invitation to him—I have also waited for the purpose of receiving into the office the work of Col. Washington, which has been returned, and I am pleased to report that I am satisfied it has been

well done. You shall be advised of my arrival in S*Augustine as soon as we get there.”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Y. Obdt Sevt V.Y.CONWAY Sr G!
THO" H BLAKE Esq Comm Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Tallahassee Florida 24" Feb. 1844 V.Y. Conway S.G.
Relative to the removal of his Office to S*Augustine. Special file Rec" March 6. ’44
<dochead>WALKER ANDERSON TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. Re Lands:ALS]</source>
Office of the Attorney of the U.S. for West Florida PENSACOLA
Feby 28th 1844
SIR In consequence of my absence from home in attendance upon the Court of Appeals at Tallahassee, I have just received your letter of the 30" of January,” requiring of me a report as to the disposition of the lots belonging to the United States in this city. I had not completed the contract for renting all the lots before I left home which is the cause of my delay in writing to you but having now done so, I have the honor to enclose you a statement “of the names of the tenants & the amount each lot rented for.
I have the honor to be Sir: Your most ob" Serv"
WALKER ANDERSON U.S. Atty for W. Florida To THE HON: CHS B PENROSE Solicitor &c Washington
[Endorsed] W. Anderson U.S: Atty for W. Fla Pensacola Feby
28* 1844 Letter respecting public lots in Pensacola Rec" from M*
Baird March 8. 1844 to be filed—W. Florida, Pensacola, February
28, 1844. Walker Anderson U States Atty enclosing a Statement of the names of the Tenants, and the amount each of the lots in Pensacola belonging to the U States have been rented for, one year from the 20" November 1843.
[Enclosure:ADS]
Statement re Public Lots in Pensacola Statement respecting lots belonging to the United States in the City of Pensacola.
1. Lot at the corner of Palafox and Government Streets, rented to Charles C Keyser for one year from Nov 20* 1843, (with an

understanding that the fences are to be kept in repair at the expense of the Tenant) at $200–pr ann;
2. Vacant lot 87. to George W Barkely at (from same date)
25 cents prann: 3. Vacant lot C, from same date to Hanson Kelly at $2 prann:
4 Vacant lot D from same date to Francis Quiggles at $5 prann:
5 Small vacant lot D from same date to Hanson Kelly at
10 cts prann: In all cases the right has been reserved to the United States to terminate the lease whenever the property is wanted.
W. ANDERSON U.S. Atty—
The lots with the exception of the first named were leased at auction to the highest bidder.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THOMAS H.
</docbody>
<dochead>BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Pub. Lands Let. Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 28th Feb. 1844</place-time>
<docbody>COMMISSIONER OF THE GEN" LAND OFFICE.
SIR, Your communication of the 27" inst." and the accompanying letter addressed to you by the Hon. David Levy,” relative to the appointment of an Agent to locate the residue of the Townships of land granted to Florida for a Seminary of learning, have been received.
I see no objection to the appointment of an Agent to make the locations, but I think the Governor or Secretary of the Territory should be appointed to that service.
I will thank you to prepare and submit to me such instructions as you may deem it advisable should be transmitted to the person who may be appointed Agent.
Your communication of the 27" inst. and the accompanying papers are herewith returned."—
I am &c J.C. SPENCER, Secy. of the Treas'

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JUDGE BRONSON (EASTERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, I]</source>
<place-time>[March 8, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of ISAAC H. BRONSON, I have nominated and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate," Do appoint him Judge of the United States for the Eastern District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said ISAAC, H. BRONSON, for the term of four years from the
14" day of March 1844, unless the President of the United States for he time being should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to L.S. be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the eighth day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty four and of the Independance of the United States of America, the sixtyeighth.”
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN TYLER, By the President, JOHN NELSON Secretary of State, ad interim VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor Gen STAUGUSTINE Mar. 9" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to inform you that I arrived here late last evening—that the Archives have likewise crossed the country safely &
are now in this office—Also that myself & Deputies are prepared to resume our official duties forthwith."

I have the honor to be Very Resp. Yr Obt. Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY Sr G!
THO" H. BLAKE Esq Comm” &c.
[Endorsed] St. Augustine Florida 9 March 1844 W. Y. Conway S.G. States that he arrived at the above place on the 8* inst—that the archives have also crossed the Country safely & are now in his Office, & that himself & Deputies are prepared to resume their Official duties forthwith—Ackd 26 March 1844 "file Jno Wilson 11 Mar 21/44
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.: DS]</source>
<place-time>[March 9, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable The Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled—
The Memorial of the Undersigned the Register and Receiver of the District of Lands subject to sale at Newnansville Florida, respectfully Showeth That the Act of Congress Approved on the 4* day of August 1842, Entitled “An Act to provide for the Armed Occupation and Settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of East Florida” ” does not provide any compensation to the Land Officers for the arduous Extra labour imposed upon them by the Department at Washington in carrying it into effect. That under Said act Nine hundred and forty Eight Permits were issued by the Register at this Office between the
12" December 1842 and the 4" of August 1843. That of these issues, Monthly Returns were required by the Department and three Copies were required to be made of each application under the certificate of the Register and Receiver, making in all twenty Eight hundred and forty four Copies of Applications, besides the correspondence necessarily attendant on the performance of the duties. The Undersigned would state that on the Sale of a quarter Section of Land, the law allows them two dollars each and that the labor attending the issue of one permit was more arduous than that required in case of the sale of the Quarter Section The undersigned would also represent that they have been appointed the Tribunal before which the Settlers are to make proof of their compliance with the law—that this is entirely extra duty and not imposed upon them by the Law, that the President of the United States could have appointed any other persons to said duty, and that they can see

no good reasons why the same Compensation should not be allowed to them that would have been allowed to any other persons.
That their duties as the Tribunal are to notify the Settlers of the periods for making proof to take the evidence of at least three persons in each case and to make monthly and yearly returns to the department of those complying with the law, and at the expiration of each period of those who have not Complied.
That they have also to hear & determine all Cases of Conflicting Claims for all which no allowance of Compensation has been made The undersigned therefore respectfully petition for the passage of a law allowing them such compensation for their duties as may seem reasonable and just to your Honorable bodies SAM RUSSELL Register JNO. PARSONS Receiver Land Office NEWNANSVILLE Fl" March 9" 1844
[Endorsed] Sam' Russell & John Parsons, Pet. for additional compensation for sevices rendered under the Armed occupation bill.
Ap' 22" 1844, ref" to com" on Pub. Lands Com. of Pub. lands.”
Mr Levy.
</docbody>
<dochead>GEORGE T. WARD TO GARRETT DAVIS</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee FLORIDA 10" March 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. GARRETT DAVIS
D" SIR. I take the liberty of recalling myself to your recollection and of asking your aid in bringing to the attention of your House the enclosed papers. They have been placed in my hands by the Representatives of the County of Monroe and on the part of the most respectable Commercial men in Key West I interest myself in the subject: " I cannot better do so than by commending it to your Care.
The petition is signed by nearly all the business men of a highly respectable Community. Their interest should be fostered. The day will come when the maritime importance of Key West will force itself on the attention of the Government."
Let me as a Whig and a Kentuckian avail myself of this occasion to Congratulate you on the now more than probable triumph of the good cause. The sceptre has departed from Judah, the Shiloh has come.—
Although we of a Territory may not contribute to it yet are our in-

terests perhaps more dependent upon a change of administration than those of the States. Among our many causes of depression the system of non-resident office holding is not the least. The absence during a great portion of the year of a judicial Officer is an evil which you can appreciate. It is to aid remedy in some sort this evil, that the Commercial men of Key West have petitioned for a Chamber of Commerce.
I ask your aid in this matter both as an American Statesman, on whom from any quarter we have a right to call and in virtue of an early recollection of & slight acquaintance with you, when I was a schoolboy in Paris.
Very Respectfully Yr friend & Obt Servt GEO. T. WARD.
[Addressed] Hon Garrett Davis. H. of Representatives. Washington D. C.
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred March 11, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable The Senate & House of Representatives of the United States.
The undersigned Citizens of East-Florida, respectfully represent to your Honorable bodies, that they are settlers on the public lands, under “the Armed occupation law,” passed in August 1842 to facilitate the termination of Indian hostilities; that they have taken possession of the land in conformity to the law & the regulations of the General Land office; that, immigrating to a section of the country before occupied & known only by Indians, their knowledge of the places settled was necessarily limited; that, during the warm & dry season, after repeated attempts, it has been found impossible, in many places, to procure wholesome water, —the only water obtained being strongly impregnated with rotton limestone, the use of which, during the last summer, has occasioned a general sickness.
Your Petitioners would further respectfully represent, that to require a continued residence on the land selected by them, will expose them to constant sickness or death, or will force them wholly to abandon their Settlements & improvements, already made at great expence & much Sacrifice of health & comfort; many too, having sought a new home in the wilderness, have invested their all in these improvements; to give up which would consign them to certain poverty & their families to distress. The continuance of the condition of residence on the 160 acres, for which “the permit” is issued, will compel many to remain, from necessity, to Secure the land to themselves & families, 

till their own death vests the land in their heirs. In such cases, the United States lose the land, while Florida & the country will lose valuable & useful Citizens, as the most industrious & enterprising will be the most reluctant & the last to abandon their improvements &
places.
Under these circumstances, your Petitioners respectfully request your Honorable bodies so to modify “the armed occupation law,”
that the continued residence of the Settler on the land may be dispensed with, & they permitted to hold the 160 acres by occupation &
cultivation; at least, that this modification extend to those, who, after repeated trials, have failed to obtain wholesome water, & whose health & life the experience of the past summer proves would be endangered by a continued residence.
Your Petitioners would further respectfully represent, that the circumstances, under which the Armed occupation law was passed, &
under which they took possession of the land, have so much changed, that the object, to be gained by requiring a continued residence on the land, no longer exists. Then the settlement & residence of citizens on the land were deemed important to aid in wresting the Country from the Indians. Now the whole prospect is changed. The enemy is gone. The soldier rests at ease in his camp. And the health &
life of the citizen are no longer required for the sacrifice. Humanity requires they should be no longer exposed to danger.
Your Petitioners also respectfully represent, that, by the proposed change in the law, they believe the Settlement of the country will be promoted, & its productions increased. Allowed to reside in healthy locations, & where wholesome water can be procured, the reputation of the country for health will be sustained, & life will be saved. Other Settlements will thicken around them, &, by creating a demand for public land, the interests of the United States will be advanced, & the population, & productions, & prosperity of the Territory greatly increased.
Your Petitioners trust, that these considerations, & others, which will readily suggest themselves, will induce your Honorable bodies to regard favorably their petition, & to modify “the armed occupation law,” in accordance with their prayer, & what the interests of the country & the dictates of humanity seem to them to require.
Isaac B Blanton Alex" Grant Joseph Dolin Wm Roberts Tho. Coverley James Bleach William Donoho John M Bridgers A. J. Lyon Daniel M. McLeod Alexander M*Leod Thomas D Whittier

Henry Y Price Wm M. Steifel John Scott Richd M. Ratcliffe John M*Gowean John M. McIntosh Jno: Costello J W Scott W. H. Mears F. M. Neal Ch" M. Conway James Gibbons Paran Moody D. Bruton J B Barns William Sykes Charles Newton David Monroe Jonathan Rea Christopher Porter Tho" Zimmer Louis Ballard James C Ballard Wm D Ballard Irvine S. Wolfe Moses Croory W. D. Branch Simeon Monroe John M*Kelvey P Hale M Rafferty E. Petitt M H Pinckston Jacob Berger Jno: G. Reardon J. Child G. L. Cochran Tho” Barnes Algernon S Speer Charles C. Tracy Henry E. W. Clark William Piles John L. Branch James J Courtenay M.D.
Joseph Downall Elisha R. Prevatt Seth S. Prevatt J. B. Smith A. B. Noyes R. H. Ault Seaborn Goodwin Allen Goodwin James Ellis Tho' Tracy James Thompson Danl Thomas Wm D. Bouldin
[Endorsed] Florida Pet. for amendments of the law for the settlement of Florida terry. March 11. 1844, ref" to com" on Public Lands" M* Levy Asking for amendment of Act for settlement of the Peninsula of Fla.” public Lands Levy Levy
17 House Journal, 28 Cong., 1 sess., p. 551.
18 See amendment to act of Aug. 4, 1842, approved June 15, 1844 (5 STAT. 671-672), wherein certain of the objections to the current law were adjusted;
but there was no provision relevant to the above prayer.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to Members of Cong., Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT March 12, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>HON DAVID LEVY H. Reps SIR: I have had the honor to peruse your letter to the Commissioner of the General Land office," recommending the appointment of an Agent to locate the residue of two townships of land granted to Florida for the use of a Seminary of learning, and which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorsed to locate by the 11" section of the Act of Congress, approved March 3" 1823," providing for the survey and desposal of the public lands in Florida–
I perceive no objection to the appointment of an agent to make the locations, but as it seems to me most proper to appoint an officer of the Territorial Government to that service, I would like to be advised if in your opinion, any objection exists to the appointment of the Govenor or Secretary of the Territory to such Agency”—
I have &c J. C. S. Secy of the Trea"—
</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[March 15, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas in July 1840, a proclamation was issued by His Excellency, Robert Raymond Reid,” then Governor of Florida commanding the volunteer Company organized under his previous order, in the County of Calhoun; called the Iola volunteers, whereof Francis Arnow was Captain, to hold themselves in readiness to march whenever the public weal required said Company to serve for the space of four months;
And whereas, said company did conformable to said proclamation hold themselves ready as aforesaid, for the space of four months, and scouted on several occasions, throughout the country adjoining the said county of Calhoun; And whereas they have never received any

compensation for their services either from the United States or the Territory.
Be it therefore resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That our Delegate in Congress, be, and he is hereby requested, to use his best exertions to obtain from Congress an appropriation to pay said Company for their said service Be it further resolved that a Copy of the foregoing preamble and resolution be certified by the proper officers and forwarded to the Honorable David Levy as soon as practicable I certify the foregoing is a true Copy of the Original as adopted by the House of Representatives H ARCHER Secty H* Reps
15 March 1844. THO: BROWN Sect. Senate
[Endorsed] Florida Resolutions of the Legislative Council for an appropriation to pay the Iola volunteers. Ap' 22" 1844, ref" to com"
on Military Affairs.” Com. of Military affairs M Levy Levy RESOLUTIONS BY THE TERRITORIAL SENATE
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>SENATE 15th March 1844</place-time>
Mr. Yonge offered the following Resolution, which was read, the Rule Waived and read the second time and Adopted Resolved by the Senate That our Delegate in Congress be requested to obtain the passage of an act of Congress, allowing one additional Senator for West Florida. One additional Senator for Middle Florida, and one additional Senator for East Florida in the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida.
Mr. Yonge also offered the following Resolution which was read.
Resolved by the Senate That the population of Jackson County, intitles it to an increased Representation in the Legislative Council, and our Delegate be, and he is hereby requested to obtain the passage of an act of Congress, allowing said County one additional Member.
Mr Houghton, moved the following amendment.
Resolved That our Delegate be also requested to procure an additional member for the County of Gadsden.
Mr Pelot Moved the following amendment.

Resolved That our Delegate be also requested to have allowed to the Counties of St Lucie and Marion, one member each in the House of Representatives of the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida.
Which amendments were severally adopted, and the Resolutions thus Amended Were Adopted.
Atteste THO: BROWN Sect, Senate
[Endorsed] Florida. resolution of Flo. Legislature asking an additional member of Ho. of Reps for Jackson, Gadsden S" Lucie & Marion Counties. Ap' 17, 1844, ref" to com" on the Territories.” Comm.
of Territories. Mr Levy.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS BALTZELL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Lets. from Commr. GLO to ST:ALS]</source>
<place-time>TAL March 17 1844</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY of the US
SIR. The Board of Trustees of the Seminary Lands in Florida organized by a meeting held on yesterday for the first time, have instructed me to request your attention to a report of a Committee of the Senate of the last Legislature & to resolutions adopted by both Houses by which “the attention of the Trustees of the Seminary Lands was earnestly requested to the completion of the location of these lands as directed by the act of Congress.””
They are willing to undertake the task of the Selection or of recommending suitable agents to the Department as may be most agreeable—Already they have instructed their agent in West Florida to make enquiry as to a suitable selection to be made there The importance of this subject to a community suffering for want of the means of suitable education will it is hoped be an apology for soliciting an early attention to the subject *
I am with due regard Your Obt Servant THOMAS BALTZELL President of the Board

The copy of a report on the subject of the compensation t to the late Judge Allen is also enclosed ”
[Addressed] Hon Secretary of Treasury U S Washington
[Endorsed] H There has been some correspondence on th I think with Col. Levy—B 120 March 25/44
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
GEN LAND OFFICE March 1
HON D. LEVY H. R.
SIR. Your communication of the 12" instant has been enclosing a letter from John C. Pelot Esq requesting that in Florida on the Suwanee near the Georgia line may not be at present. In answer I have to inform you that until the line between Georgia and Florida is finally settled, this Of be unwilling to have the lands surveyed lying adjacent to as now designated on the plats returned to this Office.”
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Your Ob*S*
THO. H. BLAKE
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THOM BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Pub. Lands Let. Bk. 3]</source>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 20" Marc COMMISSIONER OF THE GENERAL LAND OFFICE
SIR, I acknowledge the receipt of your communication C
inst.” in reference to the removal of the Land-Office from burgh to Baton-Rouge, La. and the Office of the Surveyo of Florida from Tallahassee to St. Augustine. I have exa laws to which you refer. The first case, alluded to by y already within the principle of the Attorney Generals op.
the Land-Office must be restored. But I do not think the within that principle.—The Act supposes a continuous di

the President, and as no complaint is made, I do not deem it necessary to disturb the office.
I am &c J. C. SPENCER, Secy, of the Treas'
SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[FSL:Fla., Gov. Exec. Corr.:M 31]
Secretary's Office Tallahassee March 20th 1844.
Sir, The Legislative Council of this Territory adjourned on the
15" inst, after a session of 75 days. I herewith enclose to you a certified copy of the compensation Bill, passed by the Legislature, and a list of the members and officers of each House, with receipts for the certificates given for their pay and mileage. You will perceive that the Executive vetoed the compensation Bill—This he did, solely because it provided for the payment of objects beyond, and not contemplated in the Estimates submitted by him, and the appropriation made by Congress. After paying the members and officers of the two Houses, and rejecting certain accounts allowed in the Compensation Bill, amounting to $3.872.17 and which would not appear to be properly payable out of the appropriation made by Congress, it would still be necessary to bring the former within the latter, to make a further deduction of $1.115.49.
The morning after the adjournment, I was called upon to give certificates for some of the items allowed in the Compensation Bill, by the persons who had rendered the Services, and who not residing here, were anxious to return to their homes. These were M* Long, for extra services as Clerk—M" Craft for the Same, and Mr Alexander for newspapers furnished the House. Although I knew that the two first mentioned accounts were certainly not among the objects contemplated in the Appropriation, and perhaps, also, the third, yet knowing that the services were rendered by the authority of the Legislature, and that I was not invested by Act of Congress with any express power to reject accounts, I consented to give them certificates, which simply stated, in substance, that by the Compensation Bill passed by the Legislative Council of Florida,” so much was allowed to a certain individual, for certain services. No Statement was made (as in the case with the certificates given to members and officers of the Council, whose pay is prescribed by

Act of Congress) that the amount specified was payable out of the Appropriation made by Congress, to defray the expenses of the Legislative Council. I am particular in making this Statement, because I believed at the time they were issued, that the character of the certificates would prevent their negotiation, and that consequently there would be no danger of third persons suffering by the rejection of the Accounts at your Department.
I therefore gave them certificates, of the character mentioned—
Also, two others, one to W" Rowlett for $59, and the other to Thomas Hodgson for $36, both being for fuel furnished the Council—But, as to these, I presume there will be no difficulty. Directly afterwards, however, upon referring to your letter of the 21" Dec last,” in regard to certificates issued under the Seal of the Territory, and having reflected upon the subject maturely, I was satisfied that I
had acted erroneously in giving the two, first mentioned, although written in a manner, which I thought at the time, would prevent any negotiation or assignment to third persons, with a beleif, on their part, that the Government was bound to pay them. But it seems to be immaterial what may be the language or character of the certificate—Many are not able to distinguish between them, and others, although conscious of the uncertainty attending there payment, will buy them as matter of speculation. For these reasons, and because the Compensation Bill exceeds so much in amount the appropriation made by Congress for the same object, I have determined not to issue another certificate, based upon the former, but have referred all the parties interested to your Department, where the law requires that their accounts shall be settled and adjusted.
This determination has given dissatisfaction to some, who think that because I gave a certificate to one man, under the Compensation Bill, I ought to give to all others the same. But if I acted hastily or improperly in one case, I have no idea that it is incumbent on me to do so in all—But apart from this consideration, I have no reason to believe, that any one's claim will be prejudiced by the want of a certificate, as the account upon which each is based, are all that the accounting officers of your Department require, in order that they may adjust and settle the same fairly and equitably. To aid them in so doing, I shall send by this mail a Statement to M*
Wise,” the 1* Auditor, to whom, if you deem it proper, this letter can be referred. It seems right that I should inform you, that the first mentioned certificate, given to M* Long, was transferred by him to the “Bank of Florida” with a knowledge on the part of the

latter, of the uncertainty of its payment. The same institution advanced some money to M' Gibbons, the additional member, from Hernando County, on a certificate of what would become due him, whenever Congress made the appropriation for his pay and mileage—I send you his receipt, as also, those of the other persons to whom I issued certificates. Hoping that the course which I
have pursued, may meet with the approbation of the Department.”
I remain, very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida HON: JNO C. SPENCER Sec'y of the Treasury THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO AUGUSTUS W.
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. to Colls. of Small Ports, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT March 23d, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>A. W. WALKER, Esqr. Collector of the Customs St. Augustine, E.
Florida.
SIR: It is represented to the Department that much inconvenience is experienced by persons engaged in shipping live oak timber for want of an officer of the customs at New Smyrna in the District of St. Augustine to perform the acts required by the act “for the gradual improvement of the Navy” approved 2d of March 1833,” and that this inconvenience is particularly felt by the contractor at present engaged in supplying Timber for the Navy. With the view of obviating these difficulties as well as for the purpose of affording protection to the interests of the Revenue in the vicinity of New Smyrna, it is deemed expedient to appoint an Inspector and Deputy Collector of the Customs to reside at said place, at a moderate compensation, say Two Dollars per day. The name of Mr. W. Williams, a resident of New Smyrna, has been suggested to the Department for the situation, and you are at liberty to submit his appointment or any other you may deem more suitable for the approval of the Department, and specify the compensation proposed to be allowed.”
I am very respectfully Your Obt. Servt.
J. C. SPENCER Sec'y of the Treasury

<dochead>LE GRAND CAPERS TO T. HARTLEY CRAW</dochead>
<source>[NA:OIA, Fla. Emig.:ALS]</source>
Office Dis Agts Ind A
FORT BROOKE Tampa Bay. March SIR, I confidently expected before this time, to have party of Indians ready for emigration—but the peculiar bear to the Indians remaining here, is of such a charact necessarily render their removal more tedious than any before emigrated by the government—and to be able to c.
wishes of the government concerning them, will requir adroitness, added to much experience & knowledge of character—The greater portion of the Warriors now rem are Young, & have grown up since hostilities commer country, consequently, the difficulty of treating or even c ing with them, was great, from the fact, that they have to engraft on their nature a deadly hatred to the whites, every overture we made to them, as a disigning plot, remove them without their consent—under these circum can readily imagine how imperative the necessity on (
pursue such a course towards them, as would tend to sub come these difficulties—to accomplish which has been object—That this feeling has in a great degree subsided soon be overcome I have no doubt, and it gives me pleas also my conviction that the plans are steadily & succe gressing to effect their removal *—
With great respect Sir. I have the honor to be You L. G. CAPERS–Dis Ag T. HARTLEY CRAWFORD Esqr. Commissioner of Ind A
War, Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Emign Florida—C.2160 Letter from L G
Agt Ind Affs. F* Brooke, Tampa Bay, Flo. March 2.
specting emigration of Indians Rec" 15 April '44 File M’

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO ADAM GORDON</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets to Colls. of Small Ports, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT March 27th, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>ADAM GORDON, Esqr. Collector of the Customs Key West, Florida SIR: Application has been made to Congress by a portion of the inhabitants of Dade county, Florida, residing near the mouth of the
“River Miama” to have a Port of Entry established at the mouth of said river,” and represent that they are subjected to much incomvenience by being compelled to proceed to Key West to enter their vessels and cargoes and pay duties. It is believed that any facility they can require may be afforded by the appointment of a Deputy Collector and Inspector of the Customs at the place mentioned. I
therefore wish to be furnished with your views on the subject, and if you should be satisfied of the necessity of an officer at the place mentioned, you are authorized to nominate a suitable person as Deputy Collector and Inspector of the Customs for the approval of the Department. You will at the same time suggest the compensation you may deem reasonable for his services, which cannot, however, exceed three dollars a day, the full pay of an Inspector."
I am very respectfully Your Obt. Servt.
J. C. SPENCER Sec'y of the Treasury 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THOMAS BALT ZELL ET AL.</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Pub. Lands Let. Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 30" March, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>THOMAS BALTZELL Esq." Tallahassee—JAMES G. COOPER Esq—
Nassau Co. & WALKER ANDERSON Esq. Pensacola–Florida—
GENTLEMEN, You are hereby appointed the joint Agents of this Department, to complete the selections of the land, which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized by the 11" section of the Act of Congress, providing for the survey and disposal of the public lands in

Florida, approved 3" March, 1843," to locate and reserve from sale, for the use of a Seminary of learning in Florida.—
The first section of the act of 29" January, 1827* providing for the location of the two Townships for a Seminary of learning directs that one of them shall be located East of the Apalachicola River and the other West of that River. As a portion of the Township East of the River, there has been selected with the approval of the Department a quantity of land equal to 11% sections, and as a portion of the Township West of the River, there has been selected in like manner, a quantity equal to 31% sections; thus leaving a quantity equal to 24%
sections to be selected by you on the East side of the Appalachicola River, and a quantity equal to 4% sections also to be selected by you on the West side of that River.
In accordance with the provisions of the act last mentioned, the selections are to be made in tracts of not less than an entire section corresponding with any of the legal divisions into which the public lands are authorized to be surveyed. In locating such tracts in bodies of land, other than those of technical sections, two half sections, or four quarter sections, laterally contiguous and forming a square tract, similar to a technical “section” of a mile square, may be taken.
When it may be deemed expedient to select a fractional section, such fractional section must be taken in lieu of an entire section. As some of the lands selected by your predecessor were found to conflict with the valid claims of Preemptors, it became requisite to strike from the selections to the extent of those conflicts, and hence it is that residuary tracts, less than an entire section, have necessarily been approved; and, also, as a further consequence of those conflicts, one tract of a half section, and another one of a quarter section yet remain to be selected. Two quarter sections laterally contiguous, must be taken for the half-section. Should it be desirable to select one or more fractional quarter sections, as a portion of this half section and quarter section, such fractional quarter quarter section must be taken in lieu of an entire quarter.
I enclose herewith for your information and government, a list, prepared in the General Land-Office, of the several tracts which have heretofore been selected with the approval of the Department for the Institution in question. You are requested, when the selections are completed, to forward a list of the same to this Department for its definitive action.
I have to apprise you, in conclusion, that no provision having been made by Congress for compensation for the service above

specified, none can, of course, be allowed by this Department. In making the selections, it is, of course, to be understood, that you are not to interfere with the rights of preemptors, or those who have made improvements with a view of becoming purchasers of the land.
Each selection made under these instructions must receive the assent and concurrence of at least two your number."
I am &c.
J. C. SPENCER, Secy. of the Treasy
[Enclosure]
List of Seminary Lands in the Territory of Florida
[June, 1827c]
List of Seminary lands in Florida.
T 5. R. 11 N & W West of the River Entire Section – 1
E '% & S.W. #4 of 4 & 2
S.E. }% Of 4 4 3
North 34 Of . * * 4
W 34 & W 34 of N.E. & S.E. qrs & s 6
Entire * - 7
SW #4 W 34 of SE% & E% of NE% 4 & 8.
E '% of SW. #4 — st 9.
N W 34 * - 10
SE '% & N W. 3% 4 : 12
E '% of N.W.3% & 4 14
East:% * { 15.
W 34: S E '% & W% of N E '% 4 & 21.
S.W.3% * & 22.
South }; & 4 23.
S #4 & N W 34 — s & 24.
Entire Sections 16.17.18.19.&20 and entire sections 25 to 36 enclusive.
T 4. R.7 N& W. Sections 14, 23 & 24.
T 3. R.9.N& W. Section 18.
T 5. R.10. N & W.—N%. S W 34 & E '% of S E '% of Section 16.
Section ** 14
T 3 N. R. 3 W. East of River Sections 5.7.15.17.18.22.23. & 24. & S.3% and NW #4 of Section 8.
T 2 N. R. 4 W — Sections 17 & 30 & fractional section 29.
Note.—On the 9th of June 1827–Gov–Duvall was advised that the selection of the following fractional sections (as a part of the

Township West of the River,) would be approved provid taken as entire sections”—viz:
Fractional Sections 3.10. & 13. in T.4 N. R. 7 W. and Sections 33 in T 5 N. R. 7 W.
These fractional sections, or such of them as may rem can, if desirable, be now selected by the Agents on the cond mentioned. Subsequent to the above date, the Lots 1.2. &
tional section 33. T.5 R 7. N & W. have been sold.
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE PR</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. to Pres.]</source>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT April SIR: In obedience to the request of the President to b with my views on the subject, mentioned in the accompar and enclosures from the Hon. David Levy, Delegate from I have the honor to submit the following report—
On the 23" of November last" the Collector of Apala which District St Joseph is situated, recommended that place should be constituted a port of Delivery, and a Su pointed to reside thereat. He was informed by the Depart this could only be done by an Act of Congress, and was a time requested to furnish a statement of the nature &
the business done at St. Joseph, particularly such as mi the services of a Surveyor or an Inspector of the customs p located there.
In reply, under date of the 21" of December last,” th reported as follows. “There is no business of any des St Joseph and nearly the whole population have abandone only two or three families remaining. But as it was the our merchants that St. Joseph would offer inducements fo if left without an officer I did not feel at liberty to wi Inspector or dismiss him until I should receive instructio Department. I do not think it at all necessary for the p the revenue, that an officer should any longer reside at as I think that any attempt to evade the laws by introd through that port would be made known to this office.
Inspector has remained till the present time employed, as l

by the Government, he will expect his usual compensation to the time of dismission. I shall notify W. D. Price the Inspector at St Joseph, that his pay will be discontinued at the close of this quarter”.
On the 4” of January last the Department instructed the Collector"
that in consequence of the statement made in his letter of the 21"
December that no business of any description is done at St Joseph, his discontinuance of Mr. Price's services as Inspector was approved.
The views of the Department in answer to a call made upon it by the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives on the subject of a memorial praying for the establishment of a Surveyor's port at St. Joseph, have been given, adverse to the proposition, for the reasons stated by the Collector at Apalachicola-
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Your obed" Servant”
J. C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE U STATES
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THOMAS BALTZELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Pub. Lands Let. Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT 1* April, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>THOMAS BALTZELL Esq. Tallahassee, Florida SIR, I acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the
17th ult.” inclosing copies of reports of Committees in the Territorial Legislature respecting the selection of land authorized by law to be reserved for the use of a Seminary of learning in Florida, and the compensation claimed to be due to the Representatives of the late R. C. Allen “in relation to the selection of Seminary lands.” I
inclose in reply a copy of a Report from the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, and have to state that no legal provision having been made for compensation for services of this description, and no change having taken place in the practice of the Department in that respect since the date of Mr. Graham's letter, (copy inclosed)”
I must adhere to the principles therein stated.”
I am &c.
J. C. SPENCER, Secy. of the Treas'

<dochead>TULLY R. WISE TO JAMES W. McCULLO</dochead>
<source>[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Acct., 88,698:LS]</source>
No 88,698– TREASURY DEPAI
First Auditor's Office Apr I hereby certify, that there is due from the United State K. Call, Governor of the Territory of Florida, the su thousand four hundred and seventy two dollars and fifty being for his salary from the fifth of April 1841 to the thi of March 1844, of which sum eighteen hundred dollars i to the Hon: John H. Eaton, his Assignee,” and the Five thousand six hundred and seventy two dollars an cents is to be retained in the Treasury, until the suit sha decided in which the United States is Plaintiff and the K. Call is Defendent;" which is submitted for the dec Comptroller of the Treasury thereon—
Dollars 7,472.53
TULLY R. WISE Fir To JAMES W. M*CULLOH, Esq. Comptroller of the Tre TREASURY DEPT Com SIR I admit & certify the above balance—this 2" (
1844
J W McCULLOH C.
TO THOMAS LSMITH Esq. Register TREASURY DEPARTMENT Comptrollers Office O
SIR I do hereby further certify that the residue abov.
to wit, Five thousand six hundred and seventy two .
fifty three cents—is now payable to Mess” Corcoran & Rig of Center & C° assignees of Richard K. Call"—the suit tioned having been decided in his favor."
$5,972 53
J W McCULLC

TO DANIEL GRAHAM Esq Register
[Endorsed] M Barry N° 88.698–First Auditor's Certificate in favor of Richard K. Call Copied April 4, 1844 Reg" 5* Apl 1844 $1.800
Blotter Page 826 Reg" October 9 1847 Blotter page 243 5672.53
$7.472 53 MA
5-
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, x]</source>
<place-time>April 3, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. S." Augustine Florida.
SIR. Your communication of the 1" Ult.” enclosing copies of letters from Sam' Reid, Deputy Surveyor, and from J. A. Braden &
H. W. Braden relative to the character of M* Reid's surveys, have been received. I have also received your communication of the 16th February last,” enclosing Copies of M* Reid's letter, and the affidavit of Judge Gates & Col: H. W. Braden, and also letters from Mess”
Camp, Randolph, Brown, Duvall, Hackley & Butler, in relation to the character of R. B. Kerr, the author of the letter a copy of which was communicated to you on the 20" January last." The course pursued by you in this delicate and unpleasant business has been perfectly proper. The Deputy who has been appointed to continue the Sectional lines heretofore interrupted by the Survey of the permits under the Armed occupation law, will be able to give competent and disinterested testimony as to the character of the Surveys made by Mess" Weightman & Provost, which, with the mass of testimony submitted by you, affecting M. Kerr's credibility, will I hope, remove every shadow of doubt as to the character of those Surveys.
As you state that you have strictly & closely examined the field notes returned by M. Reid, and are satisfied, so far as that examination goes, that his work appears to have been faithfully done, and as you also certify to the high standing of Judge Gates and the Mess”
Bradens, who have given testimony, from personal examination, of the correct and satisfactory manner in which M. Reid's work has been executed the amount of his account which has been withheld, should now be paid him. The course pursued by M. Reid in obtaining the testimony of disinterested and credible witnesses to refute the charges brought against his work is correct & proper, and the measures contemplated by him to put at rest every rumor on the subject is highly praiseworthy and should be carried out, —for you are aware, that

charges against the correctness of the Surveys, proceeding from any source, having a tendency to excite the apprehensions of our citizens, and therefore these investigations, though onerous & unpleasant, are absolutely necessary to allay those apprehensions, and justify the Officer who executed the work.
Very respectfully Your Ob*S*
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO REGISTERS AND RECEIVERS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>April 3, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>REG & REC OF THE L'OFF: Tallahassee Florida R & R. Newnansville Flo: R & R. S." Augustine Flo:
GENTLEMEN, The Secretary of the Treasury has appointed Mess”
Thomas Baltzell, of Tallahassee Walker Anderson, of Pensacola, and James G. Cooper, of Nassau County to complete the selections of the land granted by law for the use of a Seminary of learning in Florida. You will be pleased respect, by witholding them from entry of every description, any tracts that may be reported to you for this purpose by these Gentlemen which shall be selected in conformity with their instructions from the Secretary—A copy of these instructions, dated the 30" Ult”, with the list therein referred to, are herewith enclosed."
You will also report the selections to this Office as they may from time to time be made known to you.”
Very respectfully Your Obt S*
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to Cabinet and Bureaus, Bk. 4]</source>
<place-time>TREAS’ DEPARTMENT April 6* 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON. JOHN NELSON Atty General of the U.S
SIR It appears by an Official statement received from the Office of the Register of the Treasury, that Richard K. Call Governor of the Territory of Florida, is, at this time, indebted to the U.S. as late Receiver of public Moneys at Tallahassee in said Territory, in the sum of $5.060.13.

There is now before me an application for the payment of $1800, to the Hon. J. K. Eaton as his Assignee, on account of Gov. Call's Salary from the 5" of April 1841 to the 31* March 1844, amounting, for that period, to the sum of $7472.53.
By the authority of the Act of Congress of January 25* 1828
entitled “An Act to prevent defalcations on the part of the disbursing Agents of the Government and for other purposes” the payment of Gov. Call's Salary has been withheld up to this time.
I have the honor to ask, whether under the provisions of this Act, the above payment on account of his Salary can now be properly &
legally made, while Gov” Call thus stands charged upon the books of the Treasury.
That you may be possessed of all the facts which accompany this application, I transmit herewith, the original Report & Certificate from the 1* Auditor & 1* Comptroller.”
Very respectfully Sir, I have the honor to remain Your Obed"
Serv't J. C. SPENCER Secy of the Treasy CHARLES B. 
</docbody>
<dochead>PENROSE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury April 8–1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Your letter of the 28" ulto to the Secretary of the Treasury,”
enclosing one from W* H. Chase requesting a Suspension of proceedings on Suits now pending against him on bonds for duties on Rail Road iron imported for the Georgia Alabama & Florida Rail Road Co.
for the reason that Said Company have petitioned Congress to remit the Said duties"—has been referred to this office Upon examining the dockets of this office I find that two Suits were instituted at Pensacola May 1” 1841. on bonds executed for Iron imported by Said Company as follows Viz.—
W*H Chase principal. W. Gregory & S. M. Blount, Sureties bond dated Nov. 28* 1836, and payable 28* Nov"
1839 amounting to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5479. —
also a bond executed by the Same parties of the Same date and payable at the time amounting to . . . 8107 . .
Together $13,586 —

It appears also that Suits were instituted on other b same Company to a large amount, and dismissed by (
Comptroller of the Treasury—evidence having been prod that the Iron for the duties on which said bonds were e.
been laid down within the time prescribed by law—In re two cases now pending, as above Stated—No evidence c.
that the iron ever has been laid down, neither within allowed by law or Since—I enclose you a printed circula this office on the 25" day of May 1843," from which you that the fact that parties have petitioned Congress for rel authorise a Suspension of proceedings in a Suit pending-
That circular having been adopted after very deliberat tion, cannot be disregarded—The most that this office c.
the Circumstances, therefore is to direct the District .
prosecute the cases to judgment, and upon his being S.
the debt is entirely Safe to refrain from issuing execution the close of the present Session of Congress—And to th District Attorney has been this day instructed—
<dochead>I return M* Chases letter encl.” am Very Respectfully Servant CHA* B. PENROSE Solicitor of the TO/ HON. D. LEVY House of Representatives THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CON</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
Api W. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. St Augustine Flo:
SIR. Yours of the 30" Ult. has been received," enc a/c current for the month of March 1844, and requesting of two thousand (2,000) dollars—In accordance with t I have this day sent a requisition to the Treasury Del your favor, for the amount asked for.
Very Respectfully Your Ob. S"
THO. H. BLAF
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO DELEGATE LEV</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 18]</source>
HON D. LEVY H. R.
SIR, I regret that it is not within the power of this O
any action at present in relation to the lands in the vic

Boundary line between the State of Georgia and Florida.” A brief sketch of the past action upon the subject of this boundary by the General Government and the State of Georgia may serve at once to explain its present embarrassment and to indicate the proper relief.
For detailed information on the subject you are respectfully referred to Document N° 43, House of Rep's, 1* Session 22" Congress."
Soon after the opening of the Surveyor General's Office at Tallahassee, in 1824, Surveyor General Butler was instructed by Mr.
Graham, Commissioner of the General Land Office,” to cause the line to be surveyed from the junction of the Flint and Chattahoochie Rivers to the mound established at the head of the St Mary's by Messrs. Ellicott & Minor, Commissioners of the United States and Spain under the Treaty of 1795. This duty was, accordingly performed by D. F. McNeil, Deputy Surveyor, early in the year 1825. It appears, from Surveyor General Butler's correspondence, that a line had previously been run by authority of the State of Georgia, which was generally South of McNeil's line and in some places as far as
# of a mile distant from it.” No other line was attempted to be run until, in March 1827, Thomas M. Randolph, Commissioner on the part of the United States and Thomas Spalding, Commissioner on the part of Georgia, commenced, under the provisions of the Act of Congress of 4" May 1826,” jointly to run and mark the line from the head of S*Mary's, as designated by Ellicott and Minor, to the junction of the Flint and Chattahoochie rivers. The operations of this joint Commission were arrested before their conclusion by the heavy rains, and even if concluded would have been useless, inasmuch as the State of Georgia had, while the parties were in the field, recalled her supposed assent to the conclusions of the Commission and declared that the “Head of St Mary's" was a point to be determined by further investigation; whereas the Act of Congress, of May 4"
1826, had assumed that by Messrs. Ellicott and Minor it had been finally and conclusively established. From this time until 1834, the General Government and the State of Georgia seem to have been at issue upon this point. The State, by resolutions and reports of her Legislature and communications from her Governor, repeatedly asserted and argued her claim to commence the boundary at the head of the South Branch of St Mary's, while the Judiciary Committee of the Ho: of Reps. U.S. have as often replied to the arguments of the State and re-asserted the position taken in the Act of 4" May 1826.

896 TER RITORIA L PAPERS Two Bills have been reported to the Ho: of Reps. from the Judiciary Committee: the first (N° 221) during 1" Session 22* Congress,”
and the second (No 270) during 1" Session 23* Congress.” These Bills were identical. They were supplementary to the Act of 4* May
1826, and authorized the President to cause the line to be run in conformity with the directions of that Act, but with or without the cooperation of Georgia. Neither of these Bills was finally acted on in Congress, and since the Session of 1833, ’34—the subject does not appear upon the Journals.
The line run by authority of the State of Georgia, prior to 1825, does not coincide with that run by McNeil, under instructions from this Office in 1825. McNeil's line terminates on the S. Mary's at Ellicott and Minor's mound, and the unfinished line of Commissioners Randolph and Spalding was commenced in conformity with the Act of Congress, one mile north of that mound. No accurate line then has ever been run, and it is not known that any legal recognition attaches to any line.
The matter rests in the hands of Congress by whom this Office is yet to be directed as to the method and the extent of its action concerning it.
It may not be amiss to suggest that, whenever the line shall be ordered to be surveyed, an accurate performance of the duty will require a higher degree of skill, a superior class of instruments and a better rate of compensation than usually fall to the lot of deputy Surveyors.”
With great respect Your Obt St THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
CHARLES B. PENROSE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[N:TD, ST Lets. from Exec. Officers:LS]
Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury, April 19* 1844.
SIR It appears that the practice in Florida under existing laws, is to pay fines incurred in criminal cases to be paid into the Treasury of the Territory. The first act requiring this to be done, was approved

on the 17" of September 1822.”—the second on the 29" of December
1824;” but that now in force is the 20* Section of the act of November
19* 1828, entitled “An act for the apprehension of criminals and the punishment of crimes and misdemeanors.” The Legislative Council of Florida, on the 4" of March 1841, passed a Resolution N° 22,"
the second section of which provides that “from and after the adoption of this resolution, the Marshals and District Attorneys of the respective Judicial Districts be instructed in making out their accounts against the United States for the expenses attendant upon the administration of the laws, to embrace in the same such as may occur in consequence of the apprehension, safe keeping and prosecution of criminals and the several Judges are respectfully requested to certify the same.”
Thus while the costs in the first instance are paid by the United States in all criminal prosecutions in which the Territory is Plaintiff, the fines, if any are imposed, are paid into the Treasury of the Territory, under this Resolution of the Legislative Council.
Fines and penalties, generally, have been paid into the Treasury of the United States, and constitute a portion of the fund for the payment of Judicial Expenses.—It appears to be proper that the fines collected in Florida, should take the same destination, particularly as in many instances, it would be but a repayment of money advanced by the general government.
I have no authority to interfere in the matter, to which my attention has been recently directed, and I therefore present it to your notice that it may receive the consideration of Congress, if you are of opinion that it requires their attention.”
Very Resp. Your Obt Serv"
CHS B. PENROSE Sol" of the Treasury To HON J. C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury.
[Endorsed] Solicitors Off Ap' 19 '44 C. B. Penrose Sol Application of fines &" in criminal cases in Florida—It seems proper to call the attention of the Judiciary Com. of the House to this subject with a view that either the law of Florida directing fines to be paid into the Territorial Treasury be repealed, or that the expenses of criminal prosecution be defrayed out of them. S. 214. April 22/44 Fla

<dochead>THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO MATTHEW ARBUCKLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 20]</source>
Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, April 2
BRIGR. GENERAL M. ARBUCKLE Com. 1" Mil. Dept. New SIR; Your letter of the 6" instant transmitting Lt. Mo report of his expedition in command of a detachment of fantry, to St. Andrews' Bay,” in search of the party of Indians, who have recently been committing depredatic quarter, has been submitted to the General-in-Chief, w turned it with the following endorsement:
“The Adjutant General will inform General Arbuckle, t read with interest and approbation, the report made by Li gomery, and that I also highly approve the instructions Arbuckle for renewed operations against the lurking Ind Santa Rosa and St. Andrews' Bays. If the second expedi prove unsuccessful, I recommend a renewed effort wit creased force as may be readily brought to the points to b For this purpose General Arbuckle will employ any dispo within his Department—availing himself of the most favor:
The suggestion of stationing a Company on the St. And is, for the present, not approved.”
WINFIELD SCOTT, April 20th I am sir, &c.
L. THOMAS, A
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. B</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:LS]</source>
Office of the Surveyor General S" AUGUSTINE April 2
SIR, As it has always beeen the custom of this Office to §
such claims as are reported under the Seal of the Keeper lic Archives, –I would respectfully ask—what notice or to be paid to the decrees of the Superior Courts?—and s

quire any other evidence than the decree under the seal of the Court;-
many of these have been presented to me & I shall feel obliged, if you will give this subject your early attention.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr Obdt Servt V. Y. CONWAY. S. Gl THO" H Blake Esq Comm Gen Land Office
[Endorsed] Surveyor General, St. Augustine, 22" April '44. Asks what notice or attention is to be paid to the decrees of the Superior Courts in rel, to the Survey of claims. States that it has always been the custom of his Office to survey only such claims as are reported under the seal of the keeper of the Public Archives. Ans"
14 June 1844** file—Jno Wilson Apl. 29/44 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO ROMULUS M. SAUNDERS</dochead>
<source>[NA: HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess.:LS]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT April 23, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The practice explained by the Solicitor of the Treasury in the report which I have the honor to enclose,” seems to require the intervention of Congress to relieve the annual appropriation for the Expenses of the Courts of the United States from a burdensome charge.
I beg leave therefore to submit to the consideration of the Committee on the Judiciary whether the law of Florida directing all fines to be paid into the Territorial Treasury should not be repealed, or that provision be made for the application of the amounts, to the payment of the expenses of criminal prosecutions in the Territory.”
</docbody>
<dochead>Very respectfully your obed" Serv J. C. SPENCER Secretary of the Treasury HON R. M. SAUNDERS Chairman of the Judiciary Committee House of Representatives THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>May 9, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq St Augustine Florida SIR. The leave of absence requested in your communication of the 15th U1 is granted,” but it is important that the protraction

of the correction of the surveys made by Weightman & Prevost of the “permits” under the Armed occupation Act, should be made under your immediate supervision, to prevent the possibility of further error. It is also important that your Deputies should fully understand their instructions in relation to the survey and connection of private claims with the lines of the public surveys, that no misunderstanding may exist relative to the detail of their duties, and should any doubtful questions arise in relation to those details, they should be submitted for your decision.
I am pleased to see your determination to remove your family to Florida in the fall, as the complicated character of the surveying in your District, requires constant & vigilant supervision."
Very respectfully Your Obt S*
THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JUDGE MARWIN (SOUTHERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Comms. of Judges, I]</source>
<place-time>[May 10, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America.
To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the wisdom, uprightness, and learning, of WILLIAM MARVIN, I have nominated and, by and with the advice and Consent of the Senate," Do appoint him Judge of the United States for the Southern District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office, according to the Constitution and Laws of the said United States, and to have and to hold, the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said WILLIAM MARVIN; for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the tenth day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortyfour and of the Independance of the United States of America, the Sixtyeighth.”
JOHN TYLER, By the President, J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of State.

</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES BYRNE AND E. EVELETH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]</source>
<place-time>[May 12, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON' J. C. CALHOUN Secretary of State SIR The undersigned citizens of East Florida, on behalf of themselves and many others interested in the culture of the lemon and orange, take the liberty to address you for the purpose of soliciting a favor which your official position gives you the power, as they feel assured you will have the disposition, to grant.
About six years ago an insect made its appearance among our orange groves which has resisted all our efforts to subdue it, and has now obtained such an ascendancy as to threaten the total destruction of this important culture.
The insect is a species of coccus and looks like small oval dry scals of a brownish red color attached to the leaves & small limbs. They are apparently inanimate but notwithstanding, they propagate rapidly and after they have made their first appearance in a grove soon prevade every part of it. The trees assume in a short time a sickly appearance, become in a great measure defoliated and dried, all the limbs decaying and in some instances the trunk down to the ground Numerous remedies have been perseveringly applied but with only partial success. The progress of the enemy is onward and if not soon arrested the orange culture in E. Florida must be abandoned—
We are exceedingly anxious to know the history of the coccus insect among the orange groves of the Mediterranean, and it is to beg the favor of you to obtain the desired information from our consuls in those countries that we have taken the liberty to trouble you with this communication The queries we would put to our consul for instance in the Island of Sicily are to this effect: 1* Is there any tradition or record to shew that the insect above described ever appeared among the orange groves of Sicily? 2*. If so at what period and how long did it continue? 3”. Is there any such insect now existing on the Island? If not how long since it disappeared or was exterminated?
4—While it remained did it desolate the orange groves and prevent their bearing? 5 Did it disappear spontaneously or by the use of remedies—if by the latter what are they and how applied? 6 Is there any book on the orange culture which gives a history of this insect and if so could a copy be obtained?

Answers to these questions and any other information on the subject that may be communicated to our consuls will render us essential service and will be gratefully acknowledged We have the Honor to be sir yr obt servts CHAS BYRNE
E EVELETH
MANDARIN P. O. E. F. 12" May 1844
[Endorsed] Rec" 19" May Byrne & Eveleth May 12" Ansd”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets to SG, x]</source>
<place-time>May 13" 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY, Esq: S. G. St: Augustine Florida.
SIR, Your communication of the 29" Ultimo has been received,"
enclosing copies of the correspondence between Sam' Reid Esq.
Deputy Surveyor, and R. B. Ker, the individual who preferred charges against a part of the surveys in your District,” and also a copy of the report of A. H. Jones Esq." the Deputy who was appointed to connect the lines of the public surveys through the “permits”
in the Districts surveyed by Messrs Weightman & Prevost.
These documents are very satisfactory, as they establish the correctness of the surveys made by Weightman & Prevost, and entirely relieve those of M* Reid from every shadow of suspicion."
Very respectfully Your Obt. Serv't THO H BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO JAMES G. COOPER</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Pub. Lands Let. Bk. 3]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 14" May, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>JAMES G. COOPER Esq. Nassau Co. Florida SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4" inst." accepting the appointment as one of the Agents to

complete the selections of the land authorized to be reserved for the use of a Seminary of learning in Florida.
I have to inform you in reply to your inquiries, that this Department has received a letter from Walker Anderson Esq, accepting his appointment, but has not yet been advised of the acceptance of Mr. Baltzell. The Department wishes the selections to be made by the joint action of the Agents, in accordance with the instructions of the 30" March last," the assent of two of the Agents, at least, to be given to each selection, and upon consultation with the gentlemen associated with you in this service, you will find no difficulty, it is presumed, as to the time of making the selections."
I am &c.
M°C YOUNG—Secy. of Treasury ad interim.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIV]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 20" May 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON: D. LEVY, House of Representatives.
SIR, I have the honor to communicate to you a Copy of a letter rec" at the Department from Charles Byrne and E. Eveleth Esq."”
in relation to the ravages committed in Florida upon the Orange groves,—together with a copy of my reply. From the letter you will perceive that I have taken the liberty to refer those Gentlemen to you for information, in consequence of instructions having been given to some of our Consuls to Correspond with you upon the subject.
I am &C—
JOHN C. CALHOUN
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO CHARLES BYRNE AND E. EVELETH</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIV]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 20" May 1844</place-time>
<docbody>CHARLES BYRNE & E. EVELETH Esq." East Florida GENTLEMEN, In reply to your letter of the 12" Ins' * I have to state that at the request of the Hon: D Levy, a Circular was addressed in March 1843," to the United States Consuls residing in regions where

the Orange is extensively cultivated, with a view to obtain the same information which you desire in regard to the insect referred to in your communication, and that the consuls were requested to correspond with Mr. Levy upon the subject. I have therefore caused a Copy of your letter to be sent to that Gentleman, who will, no doubt, communicate to you much information as he may have received from those officers in relation to it."
I am & c JOHN C. CALHOUN
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO JOHN B. LEWIS</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book P—I]</source>
<place-time>PosT OFFICE DEPARTMENT May 20th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>P.M. Chattahoochee Gadsden Co. Fl. Ty.
The case of loss by mail reported in yours of the 9" inst.” will be referred, for investigation, to Laurence G. Alexander Esq. one of the Special Agents of this Dept. who, if successful, will advise you of the result.
You are directed to inform the Agent what amount of money was enclosed in the missing letter, by what Steamboat it was sent, what amount of postage was paid on it and whether the postage was unpaid or paid: addressing him at Augusta. Ga.
C.A.W. By S.B.B."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THE POSTMASTER AT WARRENTON, GA.</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book P—I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT May 20*1844.</place-time>
<docbody>P.M. Warrenton Warren Co. Ga.
Yours of the 15" inst." is received and will be forwarded to Lawrence G. Alexander Esq. the Special Agent of this Dept. who has, for some months, been charged with investigating the case of Mail Depredation to which it relates.
The Mail bag found doubtless contained the mail made up at Tallahassee for the Augusta Distribution on the 15" of April, 1843, and which covered drafts to the amount of about $3.000."
C.A.W. By S.B.B.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 20]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, May 21” 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. J. WORTH Comdg. 9" Dept. St. Augustine Florida.
SIR; The Secretary of War desires you to report, whether the Military reserve at Fort Brooke, Tampa Bay, can, with due regard to the public interest, be reduced—and if so, to what extent—
It is understood, that some efforts may be exerted in Congress, to promote the interest, of some of the people of Florida, with regard to relinquishing a portion of the Military reserve around Fort Brooke, and as you have a personal knowledge of the wants of the public service in that quarter, your opinion would have decisive effect."
I am Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR CALL TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications: ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE 22" May 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I beg leave to place before you charges of a grave and serious character against Charles S Sibley Dist. Atty of the United States for the Middle District Of Florida."
First I charge the said District Attorney with aiding and promoting malicious prosecutions to gratify personal and political animosity.
The Specifications for this charge will be found in two indictments for “Nuisance” prepared and signed by said District Atty against myself at the May term 1844 of the Superior Court for the County of Wakulla. The first of these indictments charges in the usual form that Richard K. Call did on the 1* day of January 1844 “unlawfully wilfully and maliciously” erect a pier or filler composed of wood and stone, in the St Marks River, a navigable stream, by which the navigation of said River is obstructed. An examination of the facts of this case, facts universally known in this community, and to no one better than to the said Attorney, will prove to the satisfaction of any unprejudiced mind, the wanton malice, or gross ignorance, in which this prosecution originated."
Here where the facts are known this proceeding excites only the contempt and ridicule of all honest and intelligent men. But at

Washington where it was intended to operate, and where the facts are unknown, to have it said that the Governor of Florida has been indicted, leaves the impression that he has been guilty of some violation of law or good morals, which renders him amenable to criminal justice.
A brief narrative of the facts will shew the injustice of such a conclusion. In the year 1834 the Legislative Council of Florida, granted a charter to the Tallahassee Rail Road Company.” I soon after became one of the principal Stock holders, and the President of that Company which situation I still hold. The charter authorized in express terms the company to construct a draw bridge over the St Marks River at the intersection with the Rail Road This was accordingly done, and the pier, for the erection of which I am now indicted was built by the direction of the Company, and under the express authority of law as early as the year 1839. The draw of this Bridge was sufficient for the accomodation of all vessels navigating the St Marks River, and from the time of its construction until the
13" of Sept. 1843, a period of near five years, no difficulty or delay attended any vessel bound up or down the river in passing the bridge.
At the date above mentioned the bridge was swept off by a storm which desolated that part of our Sea Board, leaving the pier standing in the River with a clear and unobstructed passage on each side of it, sufficient to admit with convenience the passage of the largest vessel which can ever ascend the St Marks River.
The charge then of obstructing the navigation of the St Marks River by the erection of the pier is false and unfounded, and the charge of erecting the pier unlawfully, and maliciously is also false and known to be so, by the District Attorney before and at the time of drawing the Indictment. I make this unqualified charge against the District Attorney, because I know he has been frequently on the Bridge, was well acquainted with its localities, and that he had every opportunity of reading the charter in our Statute Book, under which the Bridge was constructed.
The disastrous storm of the 13th of September 1843, by which I
sustained a loss of not less than $50.000. carried the Bridge erected on the pier, and deposited it, partly on the Bank, and partly in the River, a short distance above its former position, and this combined action of the elements, directed by the hand of Providence, constitutes the ground of the second indictment which charges that Richard K. Call did “unlawfully” and “maliciously” fix place put and set a certain deck of a bridge in the St Marks River, a navigable stream, by which the navigation is obstructed, when it was well known

to the said District Attorney, that the Bridge was removed and placed where it now is, by the will of God. I therefore charge, and from facts and circumstances, shall I think be able to prove that the said District Attorney well knew every materiel statement contained in both indictments to be false at the time of drawing them, and that he has prostituted the authority of his office for the most unwarranted, and malicious purposes.
I further charge the said District Attorney with high misdemeanor, in compromising various criminal prosecutions in the Courts of this District for private ends, and I charge him with official impropriety in receiving pay in the name of fees from defendants in criminal cases, as an inducement to dismiss proceedings against them, after indictments found, and in cases where the facts and the law made it his imperitive duty to prosecute to conviction.”
I will sir in a few days forward evidence to support these charges.
But if a more public investigation of them should be deemed proper.
I respectfully recommend that Ex Gov W* P Duval, James E. Broome Judge of the County Court of Leon County, residing at Tallahassee
& David L. White, Judge of the County Court of Gadsden County, Quincy, be appointed commissioners to take testimony, and report the result to the proper Department of the Government."
I have the honour to be Very Respectfully Your Obt St R K CALL
HON JOHN C CALHOUN Sect of State Washington City D.C
[Endorsed] Charges against Sibley C. S. U.S. Attorney for the Mid.
Dis' of Florida. By Gov” Call, 22" May, 1844. Extracts from these papers, marked in pencil within, were sent to M'Sibley July 13. 1844."
Same sent, giving the names of the Signers, at his request to M. Sam S Sibley July 29." See letter of to him of this date; also letter of
30" of July to Governor Call." Recd. June 3/44

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE May 27* 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER & RECEIVER at Newnansville E. Florida.
GENTLEMEN, Representations have been made to this Office by the Hon: David Levy that cases exist in Florida, in which Settlers are subjucted to very great expense, inconvenience and hardship, in consequence of their being compelled to appear in person with their witnesses at Newnansville and S" Augustine, to make proof of Settlement &c.
The 4" proviso of the 1* Section of the Armed Occupation Act of the 4th August 1842,” is to this effect, “that such settler shall within one year after the Survey of Said lands, and the opening of the proper Office for the entry and Sale of the same by the United States, prove, before such tribunal, and in such manner and form, as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office with the Approval of the President, the fact that the settlement has been commenced” &”—Pursuant to this requirement of the Act, the Register and Receiver have been Designated as the “tribunal,” before which the proof is to be made and in my instructions of the 29* June 1843,"
it is stated that “it would be desirable that in all cases of conflicting claims, the parties should appear before you with their respective witnesses, in order to give you an Opportunity of cross examining the witnesses” &°.
There is nothing in the law and instructions quoted incompatible with allowing Settlers, to whose Claims there is no Opposition, to make their own depositions and have their witnesses examined before a local Magistrate duly authorized.
In all cases then, where the claimants cannot without expense and hardship, or other serious inability, appear at your Office in person with their witnesses, you are authorized to dispense with such personal attendance, but, in such cases the following requirements must be observed.—
The proof must be taken and the witnesses examined before a local Magistrate, whose Official character must be certified under Seal, by a Clerk of the Court, or other Officer using a Seal—

The affidavits of the witnesses must be subscribed by them respectively, and the competency of each witness, as also his respectability and credibility must be certified to by the Magistrate.
Such testimony must be sent to you Officially, under Seal, the parties paying the expense of transmission through the mail or otherwise; and where Sent by an Attorney, the Power of Attorney giving Authority to Act must accompany the papers, and at the same time, the Affidavit of the Claimant must be sent, giving the reason of his inability to attend.—Of the Sufficiency of this proof, which is to be filed before you within the time required by law you are to judge as the “tribunal,” under the Act.
This instruction is not intended to embrace within its purview, parties whose right is contested, or to whose claim there is any opposition.
They must appear before you for the reasons stated in my letter of the 29th June 1843, before referred to.”
I am Very Respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO BARNARD AND FARRAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT May 28th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>MESSRS. BARNARD & FARRAR Jacksonville, Duvall Co Fla.
In reply to yours of the 20" inst.” you are informed that no such letter as you describe has been returned to the Dead Letter Office of this Dept.: nor should it be if, as you apprehend, misdirected, until after the 30" of Sept. next.
As however it may have been purloined from the mail, the case will be referred, for investigation, to Lawrence G. Alexander, Esq.
one of the Special Agents of this Dept.: who, if successful, will advise you of the result.
Please if practicable, to inform the Agent what amount of postage was charged on the missing letter and whether the postage was unpaid or paid; addressing him, freely but confidentially, under cover directed to the P.M. at Augusta, Ga.”
C.A.W. By S.B.B.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO ADAM GORDON</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. to Colls. of Small Ports, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT June 3d, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>A. GORDON, Esqr. Collector of the Customs, Key West, Florida.
SIR: After due examination of the subject submitted in your letter of the 2" ultimo,” this department has decided that, from the terms used in the 2" section of the act of 13 July 1832,” altering the limits of the District of Key West, Indian River, with its shores, &c, is left by that act as before its passage, in the District of St.
Augustine.
It necessarily follows, that the nomination made by you of Mr.
Hart, as Inspector of the customs, to be stationed at Indian River, cannot, under the circumstances, be approved by the department.
Very Respectfully Your Obt. Servt.
M°C. YOUNG Secretary of the Treasury ad interim THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THOMPSON AND
</docbody>
<dochead>HAGNER</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q—I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT June 7th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>MESSRS. THOMPSON & HAGNER Tallahassee, Fla.
A portion of the missing mail from Tallahassee, “Northern” of the 15" April’43, has recently been discovered in a well at Warrenton, Ga.
The recovered letters are all very much injured, indeed nearly destroyed; but among them, with their enclosures still safe except from the long action of the water, are your letters to James Keith, Georgetown, D.C. to Jas. Marsh of Philadelphia & to Holbrook, Nelson & Co. of New York and Perkins & Hopkins of New York, with drafts, &c, amounting to upwards of $3.000.
It is presumed that all these drafts &c, have long since become useless; but it was supposed you might be interested in learning of their fate. No clue has been, or probably will be obtained, to identify the author of this mischief.”
C.A.W. By S.B.B.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO E. G. BOOTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT June 7th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>E. G. BOOTH Esq. Prest B'k Florida, Tallahassee, Fla.
A portion of the missing Tallahassee Mail “Northern” of the
15* April '43 has recently been found in a well in Warrenton, Ga.
The letters are, of course, nearly destroyed by their long submersion;
but among them the following, with their enclosures, have been discovered.
T. Baltzell to Mrs. Mary Carter, Williamsburg, V* enclosing bill of Exchange for $99, drawn by you on W” H. M*Farland, of Richmond, Va;
Henry Bond to Edward Cook & Co. of New York, with check for
$124:75, drawn by you on D. L. Kennedy, N. York, R. H. Berry to Holbrook, Nelson & Co. New York, check by you on Kennedy, $500.
E. G. Booth to J. G. Holmes, Charleston, S.C., draft on Ingraham
& Webb, $85:
E. G. Booth to D. L. Kennedy, N. York; Thos. Randall's drft.
on Holbrook & Nelson $102.
It is presumed that none of the drafts are now of any value; but it was supposed you would like to learn their fate.
No clue to the discovery of the depredator has yet been, and probably will not be, obtained.”
C.A.W. By S.B.B.
E-
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOSEPH B. BROWNE AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL (SOUTHERN DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Marshals' Perm. Comms., 1]</source>
<place-time>[June 8, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Diligence of JoSEPH B. BROWNE, I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” Do appoint him, Marshal of the United States, in and for the Southern District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of the Office according to Law; and to have and to hold

the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same right appertaining, unto him, the said JOSEPH B. BROWNE, for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof, unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto L.S. affixed. Given under my Hand, at the City of Washington, the 8" Day of June in the Year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortyfour and of the Independence of the United States of America the Sixtyeighth.”
JOHN TYLER.
By the President, J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO FELIX G. MCCONNELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Repts. to Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT June 13, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON. F. G. M'CONNELL Military Committee, House of Representatives.
SIR, In compliance with my promise of the 17" ultimo” I now transmit herewith copies of the report of General Worth in relation to the reservation at Tampa Bay, by which it will be seen that the views expressed in my former communication are confirmed by that officer. It is believed the reservation which was made when the post was established in 1829 will be required so long as the site may be occupied as a military station.”
W. W.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>GEN LAND OFFICE June 14, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. S." Augustine Florida SIR. In answer to your enquiry of the 224 April last,” to wit.
“What notice or attention is to be paid to the decrees of the Superior

Courts” in the Survey of Claims in your District, and whether you should require any other evidence than the decree, under the Seal of the Court? I have to inform you, that, by the provisions of the Act of 23* May 1828,” where the decision of the superior Court is in favor of a claim less than a league square, and in which an appeal is not taken to the Supreme Court of the United States in behalf of the Government, within six months after the rendition of the judgment, or before the expiration of the term of the Court which may commence next after the expiration of said six months, such decision is final, and claims thus decided will be Surveyed in like manner with the claims Confirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States and by Acts of Congress. A decree of this kind under the seal of the Court, with a Certificate from the Judge, authenticated in like manner, that an appeal has not been taken within the prescribed time, will be sufficient evidence for you to order the Survey. In surveying claims thus confirmed, or confirmed by acts of Congress or decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, no attention will be paid to any entries by pre-emption or otherwise, interfering with such claims, made subsequent to the time when the petition for the Confirmation of such claim was originally filed, all such entries being void in themselves, and of no force or validity in opposition to those claims.
All locations and sales of the category contemplated in the 11"
Section of the Act of 26" May 1824,” made prior to the filing of the petition are to be respected. I beg leave to call your particule Act tention to the Act of 23" May 1828,” and the provisions of thar atof 26" May 1824 which are full and explicit on this subject.”
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”
</docbody>
<dochead>THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO THOMAS F. HUNT</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 36]</source>
<place-time>June 15th, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>LIEUT: COLONEL THOs: F. HUNT, Deputy Quarter Master General, Sainte Augustine, Florida.
SIR, I have received your letter of the 27th: Ultimo on the subject of the Mails"—I will apply to the Postmaster General, through the

War Department, for orders to the Post Master * at Saint Augustine to deliver the Military Mails to the express under the direction of the Quarter Master's Department,” but I cannot ask for any order in relation to any communications to the Newspapers as that would be taking for granted that misrepresentations are made by the Post Masters when there is no evidence of the fact in my possession. You say the paper at Jacksonville is “evidently influenced by the Post master at Pilatka,” but you do not furnish the data which have brought your mind to that conclusion."
(Signed) TH: S. JESUP. Quarter Master General.
</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES BYRNE AND E. EVELETH TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Letters:LS]</source>
<place-time>MANDARIN E. Florida 17th June 1844</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON' J. C. CALHOUN Secy. Of State.
SIR. We had the honor to address a communication to you on the
12" Ult.," on behalf of ourselves and other citizens of East Florida, soliciting your aid to obtain for us from our consuls in the Mediterranean information in relation to an insect which is destroying our orange groves, known to botanists as the “coccus hesperidum”. On the 20" Ult.” you did us the favor to reply to our communication informing us that “at the request of the Hon D. Levy a circular had been addressed to the U.S. Consuls residing in regions where Oranges are extensively cultivated with a view to obtain the same information which we desire &c”
We feel very reluctant to trouble you again on the subject, but the great importance to us of the subjeet information which we seek, and the fact that the communications to M'. Levy from our consuls (which we have seen) do not contain this information, must plead our apology.
M". Levy having himself no practical knowledge on the subject &
not having been properly & fully instructed by those who had, of coure could not frame his queries so as to elicit the proper information.
If it should be more agreeable to M'. Levy or to the Department of

state that the request for information sh” be made thro' our Delegate we have no objection. All we want is the information, & we most respectfully urge that a circular containing the queries contained in our letter of the 12" Ult. may be addressed to our consuls in the Mediterranean and other southern parts of Europe.”
We have the honor to be Sir, Yr Obt. Serts CHA* BYRNE
E EVELETH
[Endorsed] Recd. June 24 Byrne & Eveleth Mr. Ringold JOHN J. ABERT TO JACOB E. BLAKE
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topogl Engs. WASHINGTON June 19. 1844.</place-time>
1 LT J E. BLAKE Corps T Engs S*Augustine Florida SIR, The following appropriations have been made for Civil works in Florida 44 For the removal of obstructions in the Rivers Choctawhatchie and Holmes $10,000
For Survey of the route for a railroad 3 000
For work at the Haulover * 1 500
For the removal of obstructions in the River S Marks. 2 500
Instruments are now being put up to be sent to you, and instructions will follow in season "
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servt
(sd) J J ABERT Col Corps. TE
</docbody>
<dochead>PRESENTMENT OF GRAND JURY, DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. From Judges, Marshals, Attys.: C]</source>
<place-time>[June 19, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>SUPERIOR COURT DISTRICT OF EAST FLORIDA March term 1844
The Grand Jury feel that they cannot consistently with duty obligations close their labors without referring to certain matters which they deem worthy to be laid before their fellow Citizens.

Among those evils which have been brought to their notice and which they cannot look upon as less than a leading and threatening one to the interests of the community in the great looseness or laxity that too generally prevails in the management of the Slave population.
It is a fact as established by proof which they cannot hesitate to consider more than abundant that from want of care or a mistaken policy on the part of many slave owners, an inertness in the enforcement of the laws or a lameness in the laws themselves an extent of privilege and indulgence is permitted to this description of population to which they can have no consistent claim and which is wholly incompatible with a just estimate on their part of their proper position.
In this connexion the Grand Jury Present that if there is no Statute in existence which prohibits gambling in the Slave an impunity is secured to him by a strange omission on the part of the Legislature in the perpetration of a crime that is made severely and justly punishable in a white man, a distinction in favor of the negro neither in wholesome keeping with the rightful spirit of our institution or in consonance with the plainest principles of common justice—
The Grand Jury also present as a positive injury the almost universal usage among Slave owners in making the slaves in substance free dealers by allowing them to go forth and hire themselves by the day or otherwise to who ever may incline to employ them no matter for what service This practice which is of necessity followed by a relaxation of dicipline and in them a forgetfullness of duty, gives them the possession of money and affords them the means of debauchery and cannot but lead to the ultimate ruin of the slave, if not to more disastrous consequences to the Community, It is the Grand Jury are aware contended by not a few that in as much as negroes here are mostly property there exists as a general rule no right to Legislate for their government, that this should be left to the undisturbed discretion of the owner, At the same time that we freely admit the property condition of the Slave we by no means yeild a full assent to the correctness of the proposition that the owner is entitled to the exercise of an entire independance in regard to the management of this property, because the public weal greatly depends upon the propriety of manner in which it is governed, and it is therefore the undoubted privilege of the public to supervise and even dictate in the matter, so far as the same may be necessary to the general safety Horses or cattle are assuredly not less property than slaves! and yet legal enactments have been deemed requisite to govern and restrain these—if then it be proper to provide by law for the control of a description of property from which nothing beyond contingent minor injury is to be apprehended, how much more proper and necessary is it, to establish security against the great moral detriment

which must inevitably spring from the presence of an inadequately restrained and weakly governed slave property.
A case has been brought to the knowledge of the Grand Jury of most culpable mismanagement on the part of a slave owner which seems emphatically to demand the expression of their unanimous reprehension—They allude to a case in which a slave was shown to have perpetrated a violent assault upon the person of the son of the owner, The son being at the time manager of the plantation upon which the slave was—which outrage the owner not only protected the slave in on his own premises—but in the practice of wholly misapplied lenity successfully devoted his exertions to procure the entire escape of the culprit from chastisement under the law thus in effect justifying the slave—such a course pursued by masters is not only calculated to have a baneful influence upon the interests of other owners of slave property, but is likely moreover to lead to consequences even more hurtful to society at large.
The Grand Jury hold that mere abstractions even in law palpably hostile to the public safety cannot and ought not to be entertained and however far the suggestions of the Court in the charge as to the investigation and presentment of crime in the slave population has from legal quibble, or from any other cause fallen short of bringing upon offenders the merited inflictions, They may not withhold the unanimous proffer of their own thanks to his Honor Judge Bronson and the unqualified opinion that the community at large is most deeply indebted to him for his course in the matter—which if it has been prevented the production of any other good has had the effect to suitably awaken the community to a sense of wide spread and alarming evils.
The Grand Jury present the existing system of Patrol in the City of St Augustine, as lamentably defective & as entirely failing to produce the objects intended by it, They conceive that to ensure an effective organization of this portion of the City Police, a regularly enrolled gaurd should be established under the engagement of service for a specified period and with a provision for such reasonable payment as will impose the obligations of a faithful discharge of duty, and they respectfully recommend the Subject to the early consideration of the City Council—While the Grand Jury would give their full and hearty commendation of a due energy and vigilance on the part of the public officer—they do not hesitate to deprecate and condemn in their proceedings and prosecutions vexatious and unnecessarily harassing—they therefore present as injuriously affecting the harmony and interest of the community that from an excess of zeal or some other inconceivable cause on the part of certain Federal Officers a vast and unprecedented amount of litigation involving great incon-

venience and expense to the Citizen—much onerous and causeless labor to the Court and the almost total engrossment of the time of the District Attorney, and at heavy cost without any adequate good to the Government, has of late been introduced and practiced gregiously annoying to the public, which has already seriously checked and must it is beleived, if persisted in ultimately in a great measure destroy the commerce of the District The Grand Jury regret that no action has as yet been taken in Congress upon the subject of the losses of our inhabitants by the late Indian War, in relation to which, a petition from the sufferers in this section of Country" and a memorial from the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory, were some months since forwarded to Washington.” They trust that an early opportunity will be taken at the rext Session, to bring this matter so vitally important to a numerous class of our Citizens and so just and righteous in its demands—in a strong and favorable light to the attention of that body, and that it may be urged with a zeal and earnestness to which it is so manifestly entitled in Equity.
In conclusion the Grand Jury respectfully call the attention of the General Government, to the fact of the greatly increased and increasing duties of the Judge of this District—It is a matter of indisputable notoriety that the labors performed by this officer far exceed those of any other Judge in the Territory while his compensation if it do not fall short of that of other officers of his grade is far from being justly commensurate with the amount of service he is called upon to perform and they therefore recommend that a suitable increase of salary be allowed to him.
The Grand Jury request that this presentment be read in open Court and published in the Newspapers of the City and copies forwarded to our Delegate in Congress and to the State Treasury and Navy Departments DAVID R DUNHAM Secretary—
G HUMPHREYS Foreman Grand Jury Room ST AUGUSTINE June 19* 1844
SUPERIOR COURT District of East Florida I GEO R FAIRBANKS Clerk of the Superior Court of the U.S for the District of East Florida to hereby the foregoing to be a true copy of the Presentment on file of June term 1844–
[L.S.] Witness my hand and the seal of said Court this 1"
day of July A.D. 1844
GEO R FAIRBANKS Clerk

[Endorsed] Grand Jury Presentments—District of East Florida June 1844 Secy of Treasury THOMAS H. BLAKE TO DELEGATE LEVY
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Sent. Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, June 22. 1844</place-time>
HON D. LEVY Wash: City SIR, In answer to your communication of the 17" inst," I have the honor to inform you, that the total area of the Territory of Florida is estimated at 34.423.054 Acres The area of Tallahasse Dist is estimated at 9. 391. 188 “
of which there have been surveyed, including School Sections and private claims 8.082,093 “
The entire area of the St Augustine District, including School Sections and private claims, is estimated at 16. 369. 587 “
Do, of Newnsville District, including do, is 8. 662. 279 “
Add the area of the Tallahassee Dist. as above 9.391. 188 “
Gives the entire area of the Territory as above—
stated 34.423.054 “
In the St Augustine District there have been sold from 1831, the date of the first sales, till 31 March
1844 70, 155%00 “
In the Newnansville District, from 1842, till 31
March 1844, there have been sold 5.458%00 “
The number of Acres comprised in confirmed Spanish & British grants in Florida, is 1.939.789%00 “
In the Newnansville District there have been located under the armed occupation Act 140. 320 & 4
Under the armed occupation Act there have been located in the St Augustine District 44.000 **
Total located in Florida, under armed occupation Act 184. 320 4 &

A quantity equal to two Townships of land, was granted to the Territory of Florida for a Seminary of learning.
A quantity equal to one Township, was granted to the Deaf and Dumb Asylum of Kentucky, with the privilege of making selections either in Florida or Arkansas. Under this grant there have been selected in Florida, and patented 17. 7742%00 Acres Under this grant there were also selected in Florida which have not been patented. 9775%00 “
The latter selections were suspended under the supposition that the tracts selected were wholly or in part, in Alabama, -
Total selections for D & D. Asylum in Florida 18. 7518%00 “
One Township of land was granted to La Fayette, which was selected in Florida.”
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Your ob. St THO. H. BLAKE Comr P.S. There have been sold in the Tallahassee District from 1825, the date of the first sales, till 31 March 1844 796. 891 *%00 Acres."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THOMPSON AND HAGNER</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT June 24th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>MESSRS. THOMPSON & HAGNER Tallahassee, Fl. Ty.
In compliance with the request contained in yours of the 15"
inst.” your several letters to Messrs. Perkins & Hopkins of New York, Holbrook & Nelson, of New York, James Marsh of Phila. and James Keith of Georgetown D.C. found in the remains of the robbed mail of the 15" April '43 from Tallahassee to Augusta, Ga. Distribution, are with their respective enclosures, herewith returned to you.”
C.A.W. By S.B.B.

</docbody>
<dochead>PROCLAMATION OF PUBLIC LAND SALE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Rec. of Procls., vol. 2]</source>
<place-time>No. 382. [June 24, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
In pursuance of law, I, JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare and make Known that a public sale will be held at the Land Office at Newnansville in the Territory of Florida, commencing on Monday the sixteenth day of December next, for the disposal of the unappropriated vacant public lands within the limits of the townships hereinafter designated, to wit:
South of the Base line & East of the Meridian. Townships Twenty, Twenty one and Twenty two of Range Eighteen.
The two Eastern most tiers of Sections in Township Fifteen, the two Eastern most tiers of Sections and Sections twenty two, twenty seven and thirty four, in Township Sixteen, the East half of Township Seventeen and the East half of Township Eighteen, and the Sections twenty one, twenty eight and thirty three, in the same Township and all of Townships Nineteen & Twenty, except the two western most tiers of Sections in the former, of Range Nineteen.
Townships Fourteen, Fifteen and Sixteen, of Ranges Twenty, Twenty one & Twenty Two.
Townships Fifteen and Twenty of Range Twenty three.
Lands appropriated by law for the use of Schools, military, or other purposes, will be excluded from sale. The sale will be kept open for two weeks unless the lands are sooner disposed of,” and no longer;
and no private entries of lands in the Townships so offered, will be admitted until after the expiration of the two weeks.
Given under my hand at the City of Washington, this Twenty fourth day of June Anno Domini 1844 *
J TYLER
By the President THO: H BLAKE Comissioner of the General Land Office Notice to Preemption Claimants Every person entitled to the right of preemption to any lands within the limits of the townships above enumerated is required to establish the same to the satisfaction of the Register and Receiver of the Land Office, and make payment therefor as soon as practicable

after seeing this Notice, and before the day appointed for the commencement of the public sale, of the township embraceing the tract claimed—above designated; otherwise such claim will be forfeited.
THO. H BLAKE Commissioner of the General Land Office THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE CORPORATE AUTHORITIES
</docbody>
<dochead>OF FERNANDINA</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters Sent, PLC, Bk. 9]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE June 24" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE CORPORATE AUTHORITIES OF FERNANDINA Fernandina E.
Florida.
GENTLEMEN Herewith I transmit a Copy of the Act of Congress Approved the 15" Ins' entitled “An Act to confirm to the City of Fernandina, in Florida, certain lots reserved for public use by the Spanish Government” "–
By this Act Lots 5 & 7 of block N° 2, “in the Plan of the City of Ferdinando” are “confirmed and relinquished to the corporate Authorities of the Said City for such uses as were designed by the Spanish Government in the Original plan of the said City:
Provided That before the issue of patent for the same, it shall be shown to the satisfaction of the President of the United States, that the said lots were intended to be reserved in the plan of Said City for a public use.”—
With a view to proper Executive Action in regard to this act, I request that you will transmit to this Office a Sworn Copy of the plan of the City, exhibiting its precise position in Township 3 North of range 28 East,-and its exact connexions with the Contiguous Surveys, and designating by a distinctive shade, the lots referred to in the Act giving their area—measurements and connexions, shewing also the position of the public buildings and Sites in the City, and particularly the location and its extent of the Old Fort San Carlos.—
At the same time, after giving two months public notice in some Newspaper circulating in the City and vicinity, of the Claim of the Authorities under the Act, you are requested to forward the evidence on which you rely to shew “that the said lots were intended to be reserved in the plan of said City for a public use.”
It may be proper to state that fract Sec: 8 T3N. R. 29 E—&
fract Section 11 & Lots 1 & 2 of fract Sec: 14 T3 NR 28 E were reserved by order dated Feby 9th 1842 " of the President for Military purposes.
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLLIAM H. SIMMONS AND GEORGE W. COLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE June 26" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER AND RECEIVER at S*Augustine E. Florida.
GENTLEMEN Herewith I send an Act of Congress approved the
15" ins", entitled “An Act to amend an Act entitled ‘An Act to provide for the Armed Occupation and Settlement of the unsettled part of the peninsula of Florida’.”
To the provisions of this Act which are clear and explicit, I invite your careful attention.
By the 1* Section, Authority is given to the Commissioner of the General Land Office to permit a change of any location made under the Act of the 4"August 1842" on lands discovered after the issue of the permit to be liable to overflow, “provided Application for Permission to Change,” “shall have been made at the proper land Office before” the 4th August 1843.
You are requested to report for the decision of this Office, all such applications, each accompanied by the testimony submitted in support of it, indicating the tract originally located, and the one applied for in lieu thereof, -with your joint Opinion in the case.
By the 2* Section, it is provided that in all cases of Settlement under the Act of 1842 “upon lands not surveyed before the issue of permit, the settler may after Survey locate his quarter Section in any legal subdivision of Continuous or Contiguous Sections, or fractional Sections, so as to make up the quantity” of 160 Acres as (near) “as may be and to include his improvements, and as much of the lands described in his permit as is consistent with the System of the public Surveys.”—
You will take care that this provision of law is properly and faithfully carried into effect, having due regard to compactness of form in Location, so far as is consistent with the law and the rights of the settlers under it.
By the 3" Section of the Act you will observe that the requirement of actual residence by the Act of 1842, on the tract located under it, is only dispensed with in cases where the land upon which the habitation may be erected, shall be entered and paid for, if in market, or if not in market, shall be so entered within three months after it shall have been offered at public Sale.
In all cases then where the habitation may be erected on a tract other than that located under the permit, and the purchase is not made

of the tract embracing said habitation as required by this Act, the Claimant will forfeit all right under the Act of 1842.
The 4* Section provides “that in any case in which the title of the United States to the land, or any part of it not less than forty Acres, described in the permit” or “contained in the quarter Section upon which he shall have located, shall prove to be defective,” a tract of equal quantity “to that of which the title shall have proved deficient as aforesaid, may be located elsewhere upon vacant surveyed lands, within the same township, or within the nearest township in which there shall be a sufficient quantity of vacant arable land.”
In all applications for the benefit of this Section of the law, you will require satisfactory evidence to be filed in your Office, Shewing the tract claimed, and the nature and extent of interfering titles, and on the papers (proof &c) You will endorse your decisions, and designate thereon the tract allowed to be located in lieu of that to which the title of the United States may be defective.
You will also require the permit to be surrendered in such cases and will note thereon, your decision in brief, and also the description of the tract taken in lieu of the land embraced by the United States Defective title as aforesaid. You will also report an Abstract of all cases admitted by you under this Section of the law, shewing the particulars in each case.
The 5* Section needs no elucidation or comment, only requiring care and attention on your part, and a proper return to this Office of any proceedings under it."
</docbody>
<dochead>I am Very Respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO EDWIN G. BOOTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT June 28*1844.</place-time>
<docbody>EDWIN G. BOOTH Esq. Blacks & Whites, Nottoway Co. W*
Agreeably to the request contained in yours of the 13" inst." addressed to L. G. Alexander, Esq.. your letters to D. L. Kennedy Esq.
New York, and J. G. Holmes. Esq. Charleston, S.C. recovered from the remains of the robbed mail from Tallahassee of the 15" April '43, are herewith, with their respective enclosures, returned to you."
C.A.W. By S.B.B.

</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES B. PENROSE TO CHARLES J. SIBLEY</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 22]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury June 28, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have received a letter from R. K. Call Esq dated the 17th instant * in which he encloses copies of letters which have passed between you & him in relation to the claim of the U. States against him. He complains that you have not reinstated the case, or commenced a new Suit. You had my consent to set side the nonsuit, and on the 13" of May last," you acknowledge the receipt of the documentary evidence which you had called and intimate an intention to institute proceedings immediately. This I supposed had been done. It is important to both parties, that there should be a speedy determination of the case, and if you are of opinion that the interests of the U. States will be promoted by a new Suit, instead of reinstating the one nonsuited, you will commence it immediately, or if you think it expedient to set aside the nonsuit, you will take that course at Once.”
Respectfully Yours
(Signed) CHA". B. PENROSE Sol. &c TO/ CHARLES J. SIBLEY Esq U.S. Attorney Tallahassee Florida WILLIAM P. DUVAL TO CHARLES B. PENROSE
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands:ALS]</source>
<place-time>STAUGUSTINE June 28*1844</place-time>
CHARLES B. PENROSE Esq Solicitor of the Treasury.
SIR enclosed is a statement of the land causes, & the action of the court upon them at the present term—
I have no fear that, the complainants can ever succeed in establishing their tittle to the lands claimed by the Heirs of the Arredondo's These three large claims, (will give the United States) now, disposed of, some of the finest lands in the Territory. and if surveyed & brought into market, will command a fair price Respectfully Your Obt Sert Wm P DUVAL Counsel for the United States
[Endorsed] St. Augustine June 28, 1844 W. P. Duval Encloses the action of the Court in relation to Land cases. Ack" July 8, 1844 "

[Enclosure:ADS]
Statement by William P. DuVal re Action on Land Cases
[June 28, 1844]
Land Docket—St Augustine Heirs of Joseph M Arredondo VS 40:000 acres United States Heirs of F. M. Arredondo VS 50.000 acres The United States M. E. Levy & Heirs of F.M. Arredondo VS 256:000 acres The United States The complainants in these cases not having procured the evidence of tittle, refused to proceed with the above cases—and there on the Same was dismissed with costs, on the motion of the counsel Tho"
Douglass & W" P. DuVal on the part of the United States Executors of James Darby VS
United States John Houston VS
The United States The Heirs of S.J. Eubank VS 255, acres continued for survey
23040 acres argued and the court have the case under advisement claim 700. acres (confirmed)
Same John M Hanson & others VS 16:000 acres continued for survey Same The heirs of Wm H. Burritt VS
16,000 acres continued for survey Same John Breward VS
United States The heirs of Charles Seaton VS 16,000 acres continued for survey
16,000 acres continued for survey Same The Heirs of Benj" -
VS 20:000–
Same

This case came up on a petition for a rehearing, The counsel for the United States, opposed opening the decrees
1" Because, the supreme court had confirmed this claim according the plat filed in the cause
2" The final decree was rendered herein eight years before the filing of the petition for a rehearing—and the equity of the act of congress limits writs of error. to five years—at law and the courts of Equity, are bound and have held, that they must conform to the Statutes, although it is not expressly extended to cases in Equity—
The court, refused to open the case, & dismissed the petition & the Comp” have appealed from the decission "
W" P DUVAL Counsel for the United States STAUGUSTINE June 28*1844
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to Cabinet and Bureaus, Bk. 4]</source>
<place-time>TREAS’ DEPARTMENT July 3” 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON. JOHN Y MASON Secy of Navy SIR I have the honor to return herewith the letter from H. L.
Thistle Live Oak Agent, of the 10" ulto,” and the papers accompanying the same communicated by you to this Department, for perusal and return.
I enclose a report from the Commissioner of the General Land Office relative to the condition and progress of the public Surveys in that portion of Florida,” to which the papers in question refer, and I would respectfully suggest whether it would not be advisable to refer the matter to the Solicitor of the Treasury to advise with the U.S. District Attorney in reference to the difficulties suggested in sustaining prosecutions of trespassers on the live oak timber lands.”
I have the honor to be, very respectfully Your Obed" Serv"
M° C. YOUNG Secy of the Treas ad interim

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 20]</source>
<place-time>W. D. Adjutant General’s Office, WASHINGTON, July 9" 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: D. LEVY M. C. Washington D. C.—
SIR: Your two letters of the 13th ult,” and 5th instant” to the Secretary of War, the first in reference to apprehended difficulties with the Indians in Florida, and the second, reporting that three or four men of a surveying party had been killed by Indians near Peas Creek, have been received, and copies furnished to Brigr. General Worth to induce inquiries and vigilence.”
I deem it proper to add that the reports received recently from Lieut. Col. Belknap," Commanding at Tampa Bay, of the friendly disposition of the Indians in Florida, and of their humanity in one or more instances to white men in distress, do not agree with the representations made by your correspondents, and lead to the belief that they are misinformed as to the true condition of affairs in that quarter.—
I am Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>WINDSOR-near Stafford C. He 12. July 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to inform you that I have recently heard from my entire corps of Surveyors in the Indian River District &
they are all moving on in fine health & spirits. The Indians occasionally afford a little diversion by offering a harmless menace—
Some time since a Deputy found painted on one of his blazed line trees a rifle & cross—designed I suppose to indicate the penalty of violating their reserved rights, by crossing their lines.
I have the honor to be Most Respectfully Yr Obt. Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY. S. G.'
HON. THO" H. BLAKE Comm” &c. &c. &c.
[Endorsed] Sur. Gen St. Augustine, Florida. 12* July 1844.
Has recently heard from all the Surveyors in the Indian River dist.

who state that the work is progressing. N° 1. See letter to S
Gen' Secy of War 15 July 1844—Ans" 17 July 1844 "file Jno Wilson July 15/44
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. re Lands:LS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office STAUGUSTINE July 12* 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith enclose to you my reports of Suits decided &
pending in our Superior Court at the last March term thereof. at St.
Augustine, which was adjourned over to the first Monday in June
& ended on the 29* day of that month, I have no suitable blank forms for reports of Land Cases & have therefore made one seperate from the other, embracing all the cases on the Land docket at that time; & also those which have been remanded by the Supreme court for further action in the Court below; but which have not yet been docketed; by which you will perceive that a final disposition was made of six cases embracing upwards of 380,000 acres of land, & that the cases remanded & not docketed embrace about 200.000 acres;
leaving yet fourteen cases embracing about 260.000 acres, for the further action of our Court here. This Service is attended with much labour and responsibility. No specific appropriation was I observe made at the last session of Congress to defray the expense of defending land claims in Florida; was one asked? If there was please inform me at what period of the Session, & the cause of its failure, and why I cannot be paid out of the contingent or Judiciary fund without any such specific appropriation, I was so paid at one period for sevral years, as there has been “a decided increase of duty” in that branch of service, I take it for granted that the Salary has not been reduced 7°
With great respect I am Sir Your Obt Servant THO' DOUGLAS
CHARLEs B. PENROSE Esqr Sol U. S. Treasury D. C.
[Endorsed] Letter S." Augustine July 12. 1844 Thomas Douglas, Dis. Atty—Inclosing report of suits for confirmation of private land claims—&c—Pleasants"

[Enclosure: DS]
Report of Land Cases, Superior Court District of East Florida Office of the Attorney of the United States District of East Florida.
6" day of July 1844.
SIR I herewith report the following Land Suits Decided & Pending at the March Term of the Superior Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Florida; which Term ended on the twenty ninth day of June 1844.
Respectfully yours U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Florida TO THE SOLICITOR OF THE TREASURY.
Heirs of Joseph M. Arredondo VS 40.000 acres The United States Dismissed on motion of the Attorney of the United States.
The Heirs of F. M. Arredondo VS 50.000 acres The Same Dismissed on motion of the attorney of the United States M. E. Levy & Heirs of F. M Arredondo VS 256.000 acres The Same Dismissed on motion of the Attorney of the United States F. M. Garvin et al VS 16. 000
The Same Continued for Survey Executors of James Darby VS 23.040 acres The Same Comfirmed & appeal taken John Houston VS 700 acres The United States Confirmed Heirs of S J Eubanks VS 255 acres The Same Continued for Survey John M Hanson & others VS 16 000 acres The Same Continued for Survey
16.000 acres Continued for Survey VS
John Breward The Same

Heirs of William H. Burnett & E
Waterman VS 16 000 acres The Same Continued for Survey Heirs of Charles Seaton VS 16.000 acres The Same Continued for Survey Heirs of Ben Chaires &c VS 20.000 acres The Same Petition for a re-hearing—
argued & dismissed The following cases have been remanded by the Supreme Court for farther action in our Court here; but are not yet docketed: the respective mandates in them, not having been filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court below Heirs of Joseph Delespine & others VS 10. 240 acres The United States Heirs of Clark & others VS 15 000 acres The Same Maria A Mills & others VS | 10. 240 acres The Same Moses E. Levy VS | 14.500 acres The Same John Rodman assignee &c VS 16.000 acres The Same Heirs of Joseph Delespine & others VS 43 000 acres The Same Elizabeth Wiggins VS 16 000 acres The United States Zephaniah Kingsley VS | 16 000 acres The Same Andrew Burgevan VS 16 000 acres The Same

William Drummond VS 16.000 acres The Same Heirs of F. M. Arredondo VS 38.400 acres The Same I, GEORGE R. FAIRBANKS, Clerk of the Superior Court of the District of East Florida holden in the City of St Augustine, do hereby certify that the twelve cases first above mentioned were all the suits which had been instituted therein against the United States on claims to land under the Acts of 23 May 1828" & 26th May 1830 * which were decided or pending in said Court at the term above mentioned;
& that the above report thereof & of the proceedings therein is correct.
Given under my hand at the City aforesaid this 13" day of July, 1844”
GEO. R. FAIRBANKS Clerk 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Lets., XXXIV.]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 15* July 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON: R. K. CALL, Governor of the Territory of Florida, Tallahassee.
SIR, I have had the honor to receive your letters of the 22" May,”
and 2** and 3" of June last,” with accompanying papers,”—complaining of certain malversations in office of Charles S. Sibley, Attorney of the United States for the Middle District of Florida. With regard to the first specification, the aiding and promoting malicious prosecutions to gratify personal and political animosity, -I can only state that this department is not the proper authority to which application should be made in the first instanc a Court of Justice, in my opinion is the proper tribunal to examine and pronounce upon this charge, and to it recourse ought first to be had by the parties aggrieved. The other two allegations, charging Mr Sibley “with high misdemeanors in comprising various criminal prosecutions,” &c. and “with official impropriety in receiving pay, in the name of fees, from defendants in criminal Cases, as an inducement to dismiss proceedings against them after indictments found,” &c, are of a character to challenge inquiry.” A copy of the papers preferring these charges will accord-

ingly be transmitted to Mr. Sibley, with a request that he furnish to this Department, without unnecessary delay, such explanations as the nature of the complaints seems to require.” You will be furnished with a copy of his explination and if additional evidence should be required you will be apprised of the steps which will be taken to obtain it.”
I am, Sir, with great respect Your Obedient Servant JOHN C CALHOUN.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING POSTMASTER GENERAL TO THOMAS BALTZELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT July 17th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>THOMAS BALTZELL Esq. Tallahassee, Fl.
In reply to yours of the 8" inst "you are requested to inform this Dept. what amount of postage was charged on the missing letter mentioned and whether the postage was paid or not. When this information is received, the case will be referred, for investigation, to one of the Special Agents of this Dept.: who, if successful, will advise you of the result.”
S. R. H. Acting P.M.G. By S.B.B.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 20]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, July 19" 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. J. WORTH Comdg. 9" Dept. St. Augustine E. Florida.
SIR; I am directed to say in reply to your letter of April 10"
which was duly received,” that as therein suggested, you are authorized to modify the present disposition of the troops, within your Department, should circumstances, in your judgment, render changes expedient. It is hoped however, but little expense will be incurred under the authority now given.
I am Sir, &c.
L. THOMAS, A. A. Gen.'

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occup., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE July 22° 1844</place-time>
<docbody>JN° PARSONS Esq. Receiver of Public Moneys. Newnansville E. F.
SIR: On the subject of your letter of the 18" Ins” I have to state that the reservation of Keys or Islands ordered pursuant to advice from the War Dep" embraces, according to the understanding of this Office all tracks of land on the Gulf side of the Florida Coast, which may be entirely surrounded by water, and which are so well Known under the Designation of “Keys” or “Islands”—
I am of opinion that you much over estimate the area that will be covered by Said Reservation, but I will transmit to the Secretary of War a Copy of your letter in view of your suggestion to restrict the reservation to the Islands “Surrounded by navigable waters—
or outside the Actual Coast—or at and opposite harbors,” and in reference also to the alternative which you suggest in case the reservation is not restricted.—
In regard to your remarks respecting the Military Reserve at Tampa Bay, I have to state that it is Contemplated, & protected by law, and if there is any undue exercise of Military Authority at that place to the prejudice of any citizen, complaint should be preferred to the War Department."
Very respectfully Your Obt Servant THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner R. C. CALDWELL AND GEORGE WILLIS TO THE
</docbody>
<dochead>SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets. Recd.:LS]</source>
<place-time>PENSACOLA July 24th 1844</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON JNO C CALHOUN Secretary of State of the United States SIR. We feel it our duty to apprise you at this the earliest practicable date of the return of our Negroes which were the Subject of our Letter of the 28th U1 to his Excellency The President” and of Our Letter of the 29th Ult to Your Honor"—
The Man “Walker” was captured in his Whale-boat with the Seven Negroes by a Wrecker from Key West on the 8th inst. and is now secured in the Jail of this County to await his trial-And the Negroes are again in our possession—

We are induced to believe from what the Negroes tell us (of course from their memory) that the boat which the Packet-sloop reported on the 27th Ult off Pensacola Bar was the Boat of the said Jonathan Walker and if so that there is scarcely room for a doubt that the
“Poinset” could have overhauled her in a few hours, and have saved us the delay, trouble and expense to which we have been subjected by the application for the services of that Wessel being refused.
As our present misfortune is however an evil past being remedied we are chiefly solicitous for the action of the Government so that we may entertain the hope of succor in an similar emergency that may occur in future—
We have the Honor to be Very respectfully Your Obt. Servis R C CALDWELL
GEO WILLIS, pr JOS. QUIGLES Agent.
P. S. We see by the Newspapers that his Excellency the President is absent from the City of Washington. As above R. C. C. G. W.
pr J. Q.
[Endorsed] Rec" 5" Augt Mr. Dickens Caldwell & others Respectfully referred to the Secretary of the Navy for perusal. Department of State 5* August.
</docbody>
<dochead>GEORGE R. FAIRBANKS TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Lets. Recd.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Supr. Court Clerks Office ST AUGUSTINE July 28*1844</place-time>
<docbody>TO THE HON JOHN C CALHOUN Secy of State SIR I herewith enclose the Petition of Mr M. E. Levy" of this City for the purpose of the assistance and interposition of the State Department in having certain documents respecting the private interests of citizens of Florida placed in the Archives of East Florida where they properly belong—Mr Levy the Petitioner is a gentleman of respectability and Father of the Delegate—He is desirous that a request be made to the Governor General of Cuba through our Consul for a delivery of the Documents now in the Office of Manuel Farnan a notary at Havana to the Consul for the United States for their transmission to the office of Public Archives at St Augustine through the State Department—It would perhaps be advisable that the Pe-

tition of Mr Levy & papers accompanying should be transmitted to the Consul with the proper instructions—
Respectfully Yours—
G. R. FAIRBANKS Clk *
[Addressed] Secy of State Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Rec" 6 Augt. Enclosure & Copy of letter, with ins.
sent to Consul at Havana Aug 28 G. R. Fairbanks George R. Fairbanks is the name intended to be signed at the foot of the within letter—
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIV]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 30" July 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON: R. K. CALL, Tallahass, Florida.
SIR, I have the honor to inform you that, at the request of Messr."
Samuel S. Sibley and James D. Westcott Jr of Tallahassee, I have furnished them with a Copy of such portions of the papers transmitted by you to this Department as affect the official character of M"
Charles S. Sibley, and with the names of the signers.”
I have the honor, &c, Sir, Very respectfully JOHN C. CALHOUN
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. SWIFT TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Recd. Misc., Unentered:LS]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topographical Engrs WASHINGTON July 30" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The communication of the Commissioner of the General Land Office of the 22" inst,” together with its enclosure from the Receiver of public moneys at Newmansville, Florida,” in reference to certain reservations ordered to be made in the Territory for the use of the War Department, have by your directions been examined at this Bureau.
So little of the Coast of Florida on the Gulf side is known at the present day, that it would seem to be injudicious to attempt to designate by name each Key or Island which might hereafter be required by the War Department for military purposes.

The Florida Keys (proper) have been accurately surveyed and laid down upon the Chart of Gauld, published in 1790.” These Keys extend from Cape Florida on the Atlantic, to the Tortugas, in the Gulf of Mexico, some 250 miles in extent. Among these Keys there are doubtless some which it would be proper to reserve; for example Key West, if it be the property of the United State, and for Naval purposes, probably the Tortugas Keys; other points it would be necessary to reserve for Light-Houses, but as before stated, it would seem in consequence of the want of sufficient knowledge of localities, to be injudicious to attempt to designate points for reservation.
Cedar Keys, near the mouth of Suwanee River, and now used as a depot for troops, was reserved from sale by an order of the President of the United States, dated 24 March 1840.
In the absence of exact information I would respectfully recommend that the suggestion of the Receiver at Newmansville be adopted, to wit: that the reservation from Sale for military purposes so far as Islands and Keys are concerned should be confined to such as may be “Surrounded by Navigable waters”, or, “at and opposite Harbours”.”
Very respectfully Sir Your Obt Serv"
W. H. SWIFT Capt &C In charge of Bureau HON” W" WILKINS Secretary of War
[Endorsed] Bureau Top! Engrs July 30" 1844 Cap" W. H. Swift Report in reference to reserving lands on the coast of Florida for Military purposes. Will Col. Totten report on this subject? D. P.”
Rec" Aug. 2" Eng’ Depm” Aug 2"/44 I am of opinion in that there can be no necessity for the very comprehensive reservations first designed—And I think, also, with the Receiver at Newnansville, that it is quite important that the portions of ground wanted, or likely to be wanted, for public purposes, should be designated as soon as practicable. The reconnaissance & surveys of the Florida Reef which I asked for last winter, will supply accurate information as to all those islands: and it might be worth while to send an officer or two next winter, along the coast of E. Florida, to make a reconnaissance for the purpose of selecting all the probable sites of Military works or establishments. In the meantime the reservations might be made under the limitations expressed by Mr Parsons. I can detail one or two officers of Eng" for the examination above suggested whenever required Respectfully J G Totten Topg Eng taken from the Secy table March 3"/45 T-1844

</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLESS. SIBLEY TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Applications: ALS]</source>
<place-time>TALLAHASSEE August 6th 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Your letter of the 13th ultimo, with its enclosure, was forwarded to me on its receipt by M. Papy,” by express, to St Andrews Bay, West Florida, where I had gone to spend a few weeks with my family. I returned as soon as I could with convenience, but the fatigue of a journey of upwards of 120 miles, through a sandy pine barron, in an open sulky, the thermometer upwards of 90° has occasioned me such illness, that since my arrival, I am scarcely able to attend to business.
I have seen the evidence &c forwarded to you by my brother, Col Sibley " this day, and also his letter accompanying it." Had I been here in time, it should have displayed less resentment against the authors of these charges, and its tone and temper would have been more mild. However my friends may be excited on this subject, I assure you, the making of these charges has not in me, caused any feelings of bitterness. I feel confident groundless as they are, they cannot injuriously affect my character, and, I only regret that I have an enemy, (which I did not before believe,) who would have done me so great injustice. I do not desire to know who have made these charges, which it may be necessary, by the indentification of the cases referred to, to direct my attention to evidence, to disprove them.
Indeed I prefer their names should remain unknown, for in ignorance or uncertainty, I shall still extend to them those civilities, which under other circumstances I should feel obliged, from self respect, to withold.
Besides, it might occasion unpleasant difficulties between them and some of my friends. By the next mail, if my health permits, I will address you fully with regard to these accusations, and give the explanations you ask for in your communication. In the mean time, I enclose to you, a copy of a letter, containing sundry queries to Leslie A Thompson Esq," Counsellor at Law, who acted for a long time as the deputy of different former District Attorneys of this District, and who was also Auditor of Public Accounts of the Territory of NA(Dom. Letters XXXIV), minus enclosure.

Florida; and likewise his letter to mein reply," which proves, that my practice as Dist. Atty:, has been strictly conformable, with respect to the matters complained of, to that of all my predecessors, and has been uniformly sanctioned by the Courts and Treasury Officers."
I am Sir, very respectfully, Your Obt Svt CHA" S. SIBLEY U.S. Dist. Atty:
HON JOHN C. CALHOUN Secy of State Washington D. C.
[Addressed] Hon: John C. Calhoun Secy of State Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] August 6. 1844, C. S. Sibley, Attorney of Mid. Florida, in reference to letter to him of 13" of July from the Dep" Rec" 14
Aug."
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO ROBERT J. HACKLEY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. & Recs., Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE August 6, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER &c Tallahassee Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 21*June last has been received.”
In reply to so much of it as relates to the selection of some fractional Sections, for a Seminary of learning, by W.P. Duval Esq while Governor of Florida, “and not accepted by him, as the Hon” Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, could only approve of said selection on condition that they would be received in lieu of whole sections.”—I have to state that these fractional Sections are believed to be those [3, 10 & 13. in 4 N. 7 W. and 33 in 5 N. 7 W.]"
referred to in the “List” enclosed to you from this Office on the 3"
of April last" as lands which may “be now selected by the Agents;”
provided they be taken as full Sections.
You will for the present, and until the selection of the Seminary lands shall be completed, withhold these fractional Sections from entry of every description. Should they not be embraced in the selections of the Agents they must than be treated in the manner pointed out in the 9* Article of the Circular of the 1* January 1836, before they can be subject to entry at private sale.
Very respectfully Your Obt S*
THO. H. BLAKE Comm”

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>GEN LAND OFFICE August 13. 1844</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq Sur: Gen' of Florida SIR. I yesterday advised you that M* Prevost, one of the Clerks in your Office, was in this City, and that he had apprised me of his intention of bringing charges against you in your official capacity.”
I have this day received those charges in a communication from the Hon: D. Levy, a copy of which, and of the charges are herewith transmitted.” These charges are of such a character, that I shall deem it my duty to submit a copy of them to the Secretary of the Treasury for his advice and direction,-and in the mean time shall expect you to repair here in accordance with my suggestion of yesterday."
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Commr

</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF JOHN BRANCH AS GOVERNOR</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Misc. Perm. Commissions, E 2]</source>
<place-time>[June 21, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity and Ability of JOHN BRANCH of North Carolina, I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, do appoint him Governor in and for the Territory of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that office according to law and to have and to hold the said office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments thereunto of right appertaining, unto him, the said JOHN BRANCH, for the term of three years from the 11" day of August next, unless the President of the United States should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be made L.S. Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the 21" day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty four and of the Independence of the United States of America, the sixty eighth.
JOHN TYLER.
By the President:
J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR BRANCH TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Execs. of Terrs.:C]</source>
<place-time>Copy WASHINGTON August 14” 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, By the act of June 17, 1844 making appropriations for the civil & diplomatic expenses of the Gov' twenty thousand Dollars is

appropriated “for the purpose of completing and renderings tenantable the State House in Florida”*—As it will be nec make early application of this fund to the purposes contem have to request that you will cause the fund to be placed to as Governor of Florida, in order that I may be able to draw it may be required.
The former appropriation for the same purpose was, I am made subject, in the same manner, to the order of the Gove I am Respectfully Yr obt St
(signed) JNO H
HON GEO. M. BIBB Secy. of the Treasury.
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONW</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
August 1
W. Y. CONWAY Esq S. G. of Florida SIR In answer to your communication of today," I ha form you that no evidence was filed in this Office by the Levy in support of the charges transmitted in his letter of instant,” but you will perceive by the copy of that letter, you yesterday, that he requests a day may be appointed examination may be entered into, and insists on a strict inv being promptly had. My object in requesting you to repa place was also to have prompt action in the case as it is imp the public interest in Florida that the charges should be pas as soon as they possibly can be with propriety. Part of the referred to in the charges are on file in the Office of the R
the Treasury, with the proper accounts;—and the rest are this Office with your surveying accounts,—copies of whic furnished you, if you desire it. Sufficient time however w lowed the parties for preparation, if not now ready, and th also consulted as to the place of investigation. Upon these have to request yours, the charges being before you."
Very respectfully Your Obt St THO. H. BLAKE

</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES B. PENROSE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 217]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury August 15th. 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Wm. P. Duval Esq of Florida has presented to this Office an account for professional Services rendered as Land Agent. and Counsel of the United States in defending their interests in Certain land Cases pending in the Territory of Florida—All of which are particularly enumerated in the account itself. and in an official Statement of the Clerk of the Court. which accompanies it. To place this fully before you I also inclose a Copy of a letter from the Solicitor to Governor Duval. dated 25th March 1843. under which these Services were rendered. From this you will perceive that the Services of Gov. Duval were deemed of great importance to the U. States, and that he the Solicitor entertained a Strong Confidence that Congress would make a Special appropriation to Compensate him—No such appropriation was made however, and this account is now presented for the Specific Services rendered under the beleif that it may properly be paid either out of the appropriation for unproved Claims or the appropriation for the payment of the expenses of Suits & prosecutions.—
In regard to the Sums charged it will be seen from the Certificates of the District Judges & Attorney and the Hon D. Levy. delagate in Congress from the Territory & members of the bar that they are deemed reasonable and proper, and Such as would be charged by any good Counsel in that Territory for the like Services.—
With this brief Statement the account is respectfully Submitted as one addressing itself to your general discretionary authority, for such order in regard to it as you may deem equitable and just I am Very Respectfully Your Obdt Servant
(Signed) CHA". B. PENROSE Sol. of the Treasury By B. F. PLEASANT Ch. clk TO/HON. GEO M BIBB Secretary of the Treasury ACTING GOVERNOR DUVAL TO GOVERNOR BRANCH
[FSL: Govr. Exec. Corr.: M*]
TALLAHASSEE August 16" 1844
DEAR SIR, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 3” inst.” Since our Indian difficulties have been brought

to a close, the business of the Executive Office, at this season of the year, has not, usually, been considerable, or of an arduous or difficult nature. Unless something extraordinary, therefore, should occur
(which I have no occasion, at this time, to anticipate) I do not suppose that there will be any absolute necessity of your being here until sometime in the fall. In the meantime, should I apprehend that any thing will occur, requiring your presence, you shall be promptly advised of it.
I think it proper to say to you, that I have this day written a letter to the Secretary of War," requesting that he would furnish the necessary arms &c, to a company of artillery, which has been formed and organized in this City, under an Act of the Legislative Council, passed at its last session. It is under the command of an able and experienced Officer, and most worthy citizen, Cap’t John B de Corcé, and if the arms and other equipments necessary, can be obtained from the Government, I have no doubt but that it will be made a most efficient corps, through the zeal and ability of Cap’t de Corcé, and capable of rendering signal service to the Country, whenever called upon to Act. If you should feel disposed to aid the Company in its application, during your visit to Washington, and can succeed in procuring the arms required, it would give great satisfaction to our Citizens, generally.
Be pleased to accept my warmest thanks, for the friendly assurances contained in your letter.
Very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
THO: H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida HIS EXCELL’Y JOHN BRANCH Gov. of Florida 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT August 19” 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY, Washington City.
SIR I have the honor, in reply to your letters to me of the 13" of June " and 3" of July last "upon the subject of alleged dangers and hostile intentions of the Indians in Florida, to enclose to you a copy of a communication to this Department from Lieut. Colo. Belknap,"
and of an accompanying affidavit of M Lewis Bell.”

I trust these documents will allay your anxiety and remove from your mind all apprehension of danger to your constituents in Florida.
I may further add that my recent conversations with General Worth give me further assurance of the safety of the people of Florida from all mischievous intentions on the part of the Indians.
I feel assured you will agree with me that individuals on the frontier should be very cautious in avoiding, upon all occasions, the error of raising false alarms and exciting unnecessarily apprehensions of danger and thereby creating a feeling on the part of our frontier citizens calculated to lead to hostilities."
W. W.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. SWIFT TO JACOB E. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topogl. Engs. WASHINGTON August 19. 1844</place-time>
<docbody>LT J. E. BLAKE Corps T Engs S*Augustine Florida Care of Q Master USA. Savannah. Ga.
SIR Your several communications of the 7th "8"" & 10" * inst have been received.
You will have perceived by the letter of instructions addressed to you on the 2" July,” that the Appropriations for Florida were made without reference to this Bureau. Consequently that it had no means of knowing the proper route for the contemplated Rail Road.
In the absence of the necessary information upon which instructions could properly be prepared, application was made to the Delegate from Florida (at whose instance the appropriations were made) for such information as would enable the Bureau to carry out the object and intention of the law, and it was upon information thus derived that your instructions were prepared.
It would appear by your communication, and by the representation of others capable of imparting correct information upon the subject of the route of the proposed Rail Way, that a better and shorter line than that designated in your instructions of 2" July, is to be found between Pilatka and the Gulf.
Under these circumstances you will consider your instructions in reference to this particular survey suspended until the Chief Topogl.
Engineer now absent from this City, can be apprised of the fact.

When apprised he will give such additional instructions in reference to the Survey as may seem to be expedient.
Your remarks upon the inadequacy of the appropriation for cutting a canal at the Haulover will also be submitted to the Chief Topogl.
Eng’.” This work will also for the present be suspended.”
Your application for authority to employ a civil Assistant will also be communicated to Col. Abert.
The instruments which you require will be forwarded to you through the Quarter Masters Department.”
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servt.
(sd) W H SWIFT Captain T E In charge of Bureau WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Exec. Officers: ALS]</source>
H* Q" 9th Department S*AUGUSTINE Aug 19th '44
SIR, Lieu" Col" Belknap, Commanding at F* Brooke, remarks in an official report of the 16" ins" on Indian matters”—“I understand that a person by the name of Russel, from North Carolina has been appointed inspector of the revenue at Charlotte Harbor and that he is now in this neighborhood on his way thither.”—
There is not a settlement or habitation South of Manatee, a small stream emptying into Tampa Bay at least seventy miles Westerly from Charlotte Harbor—with the latter there is not the slightest intercourse except by an occasional fishing canoe from Tampa or vessel dispatched there on Indian matters—At Manatee there is a thrifty settlement to which vessels resort with supplies, but very rarely—this stream however, as stated, empties into Tampa Bay and is presumed to be within the revenue district of the off of that dept stationed at F* Brooke. It is certainly convenient & accessible to him at all times.
If this appointment & location has been deemed necessary to prevent smugling, the precaution can only result in a useless waste of public money—Charlotte Harbor, and the Keys which form it, lies in its whole extent proximate to & opposite, seaward, the Indian boundary and—saving a few individuals hear after referred tothere are none but Indians to depredate upon the revenue—The presence of a revenue officer, with his attendants, at that point

will be misunderstood by the Indians and may greatly embarrass and delay, if not defeat, the designs in regard to the ultimate dispositions of those people.
I beg the subject may be presented to the early attention of the Secy of War & by him to the notice of the Treasury Dept. in the hope that the subject may be reviewed and the locale of this revenue officer at least be changed.
Within a few months several white men have taken post on one of the Keys lying between Pease Creek & Carloosahatchie (See map)
and opened an active whiskey traffic with the Indians—It is absolutely necessary those intruders Sh" be removed: but before proceeding to do so, thro’ the Marshal, I request that inquiry may be made at the general land office to ascertain whether any authority has been granted for said occupency.”
An early answer is respectfully solicited.
I am Sir Yr Ob Sert W. J. WORTH Brig Gen Comg To/ THE ADJ GENERAL U.S. Army H* Q” Washing"
[Endorsed] Head Q” 9" M Dep’ St Augustine Fa. August 19th
1844. W. J. Worth Brig Gen Commanding. In reference to the appointment of an Inspector of the Revenue at Charlotte Harbor.
Fa. and asks information as to whether permission has been granted to any person or persons to occupy the Keys on the Coast of Florida, West. It is highly important that no person should be permitted to settle on the Islands forming “Charlotte Harbor” which are immediately contiguous to the present Indian boundry line and which are of no value for the purpose of agriculture, being in general formed of sand and shells. Locations on these Islands would be made for the purpose of trafic with the Indians which should be prevented. An Inspector of the Revenue is certainly not necessary at this place where there is no trade and smuggling could not well be carried on—Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War.
Adgt Genls office Aug 28, 1844 L. Thomas Ass" Adj. Genl. Aug. 28.
1844 25
Take copy of the letter to the Secy of War—& put it on file with the letter of Gen' Worth & letter of Secy of War—Send the answer of the Sect of the Treasury, to the Sect of War, together with the letter from office of Surveyor genl at S" Augustine. J.N.B.” Give

orders that the inspector's office be removed from Charlotte harbor, & established at Indian river. write letter to collector of Key West.
</docbody>
<dochead>J.N.B. this attended to G.R. ” attend to this THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO C. TAYLOR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT August 22° 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>C. TAYLOR, Esq." Enterprise, Lake Monroe Florida.
SIR, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 18"
ultimo.”
In regard to establishing, for the accommodation of the new settlers in Florida, a land office at Enterprise, on Lake Monroe, and a mail communication from Pilatka by Enterprise to Tampa, they being subjects entirely within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Post Master General, you should address those officers in relation to them.
As to your complaint that the new settlers have not been aided as they should have been with arms and subsistence, so far as this Department is concerned, every thing has been done, that with propriety could be under existing laws.
It is confidently believed that your fears of molestation or danger from the Indians remaining in Florida are groundless, as recent and authentic information indicates that there is no reason for supposing any such disposition on the part of the Indians if they are not interfered with.
Your reflections and insinuations in regard to General Worth are regarded as entirely unjust and unfounded. Aside from his well known patriotism, zeal and vigilance, the Department has ample assurance, in the measures he has adopted, and in the peace and tranquillity which has prevailed between the citizens and the Indians, that he has omitted nothing requisite to ensure protection and safety to the citizens of Florida.
W. W.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Exec. Officers:LS]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT, August 30, 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I respectfully transmit herewith a report of General Worth, Commanding in Florida, which contains information that may be

interesting to your Department, relative to the location of an Inspector of the Revenue near Charlotte Harbor.”
Until further advised by surveys of the Territory and coast of Florida, this Department is not disposed to recommend the public sale of any islands now withheld from such sale by the General Land Office under your direction.
Very respectfully Your Obed Servt W" WILKINS, Secretary of War HON: GEO: M. BIBB Secretary of the Treasury.
[Endorsed] War Dept Augt 30/44 Hon” W* Wilkins Encl” letter from Gen' Worth resp" office of Customs in Charlotte harbor &c Ans" Augt 31* * & wrote to Coll of Key West Sept 2"/44* Letter of Secty of War—W. 167. Sept 2/44 Rodman”
</docbody>
<dochead>AUDITOR'S CERTIFICATE FOR GOVERNOR CALL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Accts., No. 89,685]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, First Auditor's Office, August 30" 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>No. 89.685.—
I hereby certify, that there is due from the United States to Richard K. Call, late Governor of the Territory of Florida, the sum of Two hundred and eighty five dollars and thirty two cents, being for his salary from the first of July to the eleventh day of August 1844, payable to George K. Walker, his Assignee; which is submitted for the decision of the comptroller of the Treasury thereon.
W" COLLINS First Auditor.
$285.32
TO THE FIRST COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY.
TREASURY DEPT, Compr’s Office I admit & certify the above balance this 2" day of September 1844
J W M*CULLOH Comptroller
(Governor Call on the 19* ultimo, drew a draft on the Secretary of the Treasury for $625, in favor of George K. Walker, which said Walker assigned to Simon Towle—On the 3" instant M Towle, pre-

sented the draft to this Office, for payment—He was informed that the salary due to Governor Call, which might accrue from July 1"
to the end of his unexpired term of service could only be paid, as that previously due had been retained in the Treasury, until the Suit between the Government and Governor Call, should be determined—
M Towle then addressed a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, enclosing the draft referred to above, in which he requested: “that the order may be filed, and whenever the same shall have become due, the amount, whatever it is, may be remitted to the order of George K. Walker, Esq. Tallahassee, Florida.”—See Mr Towle's letter, and the draft herewith—Governor Call's term of Service expired on the 11" of August 1844, p" memorandum on the draft made by M Hill of the Dept of State)*
To be remitted to him at Tallahassee, Florida–
[Endorsed] File with No. 89.685–First Auditor's Certificate in favor of Richard K. Call Copied Sep. 3. 1844 Reg" 3" Sept 1844
Blotter Page 130 MA
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE Com. to SW and Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON September 3” 1844</place-time>
<docbody>HON W* WILKINS Secretary of War SIR A letter from Hon D Levy to the President, dated 14"August, last,” relating to the commencement of works of fortifications on the Florida reef, including Key West, and the Dry Tortugas, having just been referred by you to this Office, I have the honor to report in relation thereto That some five or six weeks since I had a conversation with M"
Levy on this subject, in which I stated to him that in my opinion it was premature now to expend money in erecting works on any position in that reef, because the same money could be, as yet, expended to greater effect, as regards general results elsewhere; but as Congress had, by making a specific appropriation, decided to now begin on that reef, it was not for me to say that it was too soon.-That accordingly, I should willingly begin the moment we were in possession of the necessary information. That this, however, was a complicated problem, not to be solved in a moment, nor by piece-meal-
That we must know accurately all the harbors accessible to men of war and their positions relatively to each other, and to the coast, and to the island of Cuba. Hence there must be a reconnaissance of the

whole reef, and a Survey of each man of war harbor, which I had officially called for six months ago.—See letter from this Office to Secretary of War, dated 30" January 1844.”
As expressive of the views of this Department, I beg leave to refer you in a particular manner, to that letter—which sets forth, in some detail, the necessity and importance of fortified points upon the Reef in question; the matters to be considered in selecting positions; and the exact knowledge indispensable to the establishment of a system of defence that—notwithstanding the most rigorous and deeply studied economy, must to fulfil its great object involve the expenditure of a large sum of money. That letter calls specially for information, without which, to proceed will be to act with blinded eyes.—
I am not certain as to the disposition made of the call but presume it was put in such train of execution as the importance of the subject was deemed to demand.
Congress having decided to proceed with these defences, it will be the duty of this Office to prosecute them with all the vigor warranted by the extent of future appropriations. And the existing appropriation will be applied as designed, at the earliest day possible. But first of all, the information necessary to a proper desposition of these funds must be obtained.
It would be very easy, now, with our present imperfect knowledge.
to expend in an off-hand way, all the money Congress has granted, and much more too, in the erection of Batteries on the Florida Reef;
a pressing political exigency might arise (or it may without my knowledge now exist) exacting all that impromptu energy and zeal could achieve: but I do not suppose the Government would be satisfied with the one course, or that it regards any such need as demanding common prudence to be set at nought.—on the contrary, I suppose Government and Congress to look to their agents for the best application of these means, that it is in their power to make, and such a supposition implies, of course, resort to all the preliminary investigations bearing upon the great questions of adaptation efficiency and cost.
Such a supposition does not imply that the precautions demanded by experience and forecase, in cases easy and of merely local importance are to be disregarded in this instance, much complicated and involving interest only national and great.—
Unless some pressing exigency really exist, I trust such course will be pursued as will permit the defences of the Florida Reef to be the subject of investigation under the most favorable circumstances for the able and judicious solution of a proposition so important. The first steps in that course are indicated in my letter above referred

to.—In the mean time, I heartily desire that the preliminary Surveys and reconnaissance, therein asked for, may be prosecuted, and the results presented with all practicable dispatch. The grant of money by Congress (since the date of my letter) has settled the question of order of commencement: and we have to presume, that Congress desires the period to be the earliest, connected with a proper commencement.
I can promise the zealous labors of the Officers of the Department in every way that may expedite the matter, after the requisite facts shall have been deposited with them. You are of course aware, that this office is not entrusted with the duty of making such Surveys and reconnaissances, and that its execution rests with another Corps, qualified in all respects for its perfect performance."—
Very Respectfully Your most obdt.
JOS. G. TOTTEN Col and Chf Eng"
r-
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. SWIFT TO CAMPBELL GRAHAM</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topogl. Engs WASHINGTON Septr. 5 1844</place-time>
<docbody>CAPTAIN C GRAHAM Corps T. Engs. Washington SIR. Instructions have this day been received from the War Department for the immediate prosecution of preparatory surveys and reconnoissances of the Florida Reef, in order that the Act of Congress of June 14" 1844 * appropriating 50,000 dollars “for the commencement of Fortifications on the Florida Reef including Key West and the Dry Tortugas.” may be executed.
This duty is hereby assigned to you, and the enclosed copies of Communications from the Chief of the Corps of Engineers of the 30"
January 1844,” and 34 September 1844, addressed to the Secretary of War, in accordance with paragraph 884 of the Army Regulations, will serve as a full guide to you in collecting the data required.
You will make the necessary requisitions for Assistants and for means to enable you to carry on your work.
The instructions of the Hon Secretary of War call for prompt action on the part of this Bureau, and it is confidently expected that your operations in conducting the work entrusted to your superintendence will be characterized by energetic and zealous measures, in order

that the information called for may be collected, and the results reported at a period as early as may be practicable”
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servt
(sd) W H SWIFT Captn. T E In charge of Bureau THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE PRESIDENT
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. to the Pres.]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Sept 9th 1844.</place-time>
TO HIS EXCY JOHN TYLER Prest U. States.
On the 11" June 1844, the charges, against Mr. W. Y. Conway Surveyor General of Florida, of malfeasance in office, and peculation, were filed in the general land office, as specified in paper (A).
To those charges Mr. Conway filed his answer marked (B) on the
17th August 1844."
Without remarking upon the efforts of Mr. Conway to put by the investigation of those charges, by evidence to sustain or to repel them, as had been ordered, and without travelling out of the answer of Mr. Conway and the documents in the general land office and in the Office of the Comptroller, these facts are apparent. On the 19th June 1843," Mr. Conway addressed a letter to the Commissioner of the general land office, informing of the death of the son of W. Y.
Conway, who at his death was a clerk in the office of the Surveyor General of Florida at a salary of one thousand dollars per year, asking permission to divide, “the three thousand dollars” (appropriated for the salaries of three clerks) between the two, They are willing to do the additional work” &c (as appears in paper E. To this the commissioner answered by letter of the 28* June 1843,” saying
“while holding you to a strict accountability under your official bond for the faithful and diligent discharge of your official duties in all their details”, you are permitted, “so to apportion the legal appropriation for clerk hire, among the Clerks in whose skill and ability you repose confidence, as to secure the greatest amount of public benefit to your branch of the public service. You will therefore act in the premises according to the best dictates of your own judgment in view of the important responsibilities devolving on your office”. (paper F).

Mr. W.Y. Conway employed his clerks A. A. Nunes & L. W. Prevost Junior at the salary of one thousand dollars per year each; yet charged the government their salaries at the rate of fifteen hundred dollars per year to each, drew the money from the public treasury and appropriated the excess, above one thousand dollars to each, to his own use.
Those facts are apparent in his answer, (paper B.) pages 2 & 3;
& in his accounts as settled at this Department. From and after the 30" June 1843, Mr. Conway drew quarter yearly for the salaries of his two clerks at the rate of $375, per quarter year to each paid to the two for each quarter only five hundred dollars & retained to his own use too hundred and fifty dollars for each quarter out of the $750.
drawn by him quarter yearly on account of Clerk's salaries. The clerks agreed with Mr. Conway for the salary of one thousand dollars per year to each; and that Conway should charge the government as for the salary of fifteen hundred dollars per year to each, and that Conway should retain to himself the said excess of one thousand dollars per year out of the appropriation for pay of clerks, so as to increase his salary from two thousand dollars per year as established by law, to three thousand dollars per year: and this agreement so made by Mr. Conway with his clerks who held their offices at his will and pleasure, he has carried into execution actually and practically.
Such agreement so made and so practised upon by the said Conway as surveyor general of Florida, was a gross abuse of the trust reposed in him by the government, a flagrant malfeasance in office, an unfair practise by him committed upon his Clerks who held at his pleasure.
The wrathful abuse which Mr. Conway has lavished upon his Clerks Nunes & Prevost, since they have disclosed those facts, are impotent to do away the facts, seeing that they are confessed in Mr. Conway's answer in pages two and three. After such facts so clearly appearing, confessed by Mr. Conway's answer in his own hand writing, I forbear to remark upon the matters contained in the charges and specifications and his responses. I recommend to the president that Mr.
W. Y. Conway, be removed from the office of Surveyor General of Florida.48
With very high respect Yours &c GEO: M, BIBB Secretary of the Treasury HIS EXCy JOHN TYLER Prt of U. States

ACTING GOVERNOR DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY
[FSL: Govr. Exec. Corres. : M *]
Executive Office—TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA, September 12" 1844
SIR, Since my letter to you of the 16" ult." (to which I have not as yet received a reply) I have ascertained that the amount of Appropriation made by Congress in 1839," for the erection of public buildings in this Territory, was, at the request of the Governor, placed in certain Banks, and made subject to the order of the Treasurer of the Territory. I presume there can be no objection to pursuing the same course, with regard to the Appropriation made at the last session, for the completion of the Capitol in this City. I would, therefore, respectfully request that you would pay, or cause to be paid to the Treasurer of Florida, or his order, (to be placed to the credit of the fund for finishing the Capitol) the amount of the appropriation made for that object. Henry L. Rutgers Esq is at present, the Treasurer of the Territory.
The accommodation of the Legislature at its approaching Session, as well as the preservation of the building itself, renders its early completion a matter of much importance to the Territory."
I am very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
</docbody>
<dochead>THO H. DUVAL Sec'y & acting Gov of Florida HON: GEO. M. BIBB Sec'y of the Treasury THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, x]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE September 20" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>WY CONWAY Esq Sur. Gen St Augustine, Florida SIR By the Act of Congress, entitled “An Act making appropriations for the Civil and diplomatic expenses of the government for the fiscal year ending the thirtieth day of June eighteen hundred and forty five, and for other purposes” approved 17" June 1844,” five

thousand dollars were appropriated “for the survey of private claims in Florida, and their connection with the adjacent public lands, at a rate not exceeding five dollars a mile”—and of the appropriation of
$110,000—made by the Same Act “for surveying the public lands, in addition to the unexpended balance of former appropriations, to be apportioned to the several districts according to the exigencies of the public service, exclusive of surveys in Louisiana,” the sum of fourteen thousand three hundred dollars has been apportioned to Your District for new surveys, and seven hundred dollars for incidental expenses.
The sum of $15,000 thus apportioned to your Office being much less than the amount asked for by you, and embraced in the estimates submitted by this Office to Congress, it may be proper to state in explanation, that only about two thirds of the amount of general appropriation required by this Office, was appropriated by Congress, consequently the same proportion of the amounts estimated for by the Surveyor General, will necessarily be apportioned to their respective Districts.
It has been determined to pay out all the appropriations for surveys, provided by the above mentioned Act, directly from the Treasury Department, to the Deputy Surveyors entitled to receive them, and in making a Contract, it should be specifically set forth in the Contract, that the Deputies will receive their compensation direct from the Treasury Department, upon the receipt of their accounts at this Office, properly receipted by them, and certified by the Surveyor General, accompanied by the approved plats of the Surveys for which such accounts are rendered, and it should also be set forth in the Contract, that the Surveyor General reserves to himself the right to appoint a Deputy to examine the work at the expense of the Deputy who executed it, whenever, in his judgment the public interest requires it.
The establishment of this rule, which, of course is a general one, and intended to apply also in the disbursement of all future appropriations, for Surveys, will relieve the Surveyors General from all trouble in making disbursements, except in paying the salaries of their Clerks, and the incidental expenses of their respective Offices.
I have thought much upon the change, and am well satisfied, that whilst it will afford great relief to the Surveyors General, it will, in other respects, greatly promote the public interest.
The undrawn balance of your apportionment of the appropriation of 3" March 1843," will be remitted to you as heretofore, to pay for

the surveys Contracted for by you under instructions heretofore issued.
The appropriation of $5000 above mentioned will, it is belived, enable you to have all the private claims located in the region of Country which has been surveyed; and where you are perfectly satisfied that any Deputy will have extraordinary difficulty in surveying the lands, or locating the private claims within the Contract allotted to him, you may allow such Deputy five dollars per mile for every mile and part of a mile of the boundaries of the private claims located by him within such contract;—You will however, use every care and precaution to prevent imposition, and only make the allowance where you are perfectly satisfied that the difficulties to be encountered by the Deputy are of an extraordinary character, and such as will justify the allowance.
For the Kind of private claims to be surveyed under this appropriation, I refer you to my letter of the 14" June last,”—And for the manner of surveying them to the instructions of 20" October
1843 * and 28th February 1844.”
From your annual report, and the best information that can be obtained, it appears important that the tract of county between ranges 16 and 19, inclusive and Townships 13 and 19 inclusive, should be resurveyed if, on examination it appears, as stated, that the marks of the old surveys within those limits have been obliterated.
The new surveys on the Gulf coast, should include such of the lands on the Suwannee, within Thomas' district as can be surveyed;—
those South of Township 16 between Weightmans and Prevosts’
districts & South of those districts to the lands surveyed by Randolph; and South of Reeds district to Charlotte Harbor. The surveys on the Atlantic border will include the unsurveyed lands north of Washington's districts, –South of Houston's recent contract, and between Whitner's and Jone's Districts; the money apportioned to you to be applied in equal parts as near as possible to such of the surveys above mentioned, on the Gulf and Atlantic Coast, as will be most Conducive to the public interests.
If you are perfectly satisfied from the examination heretofore made that an entire resurvey is necessary, if the lands beforementioned, between Ranges 16 and 19 inclusive, and Townships 13 and 19
inclusive, you will have the whole of them resurveyed in exact accordance with the original field notes. To indicate the lines thus resurveyed, and the corners thus established, you will use some

plain and distinct mark different from the ordinary mode of marking, yet easy to be made and understood, so that the settlers will be able readily to distinguish the lines and Corners of this resurvey.
The instructions of the 20" October last,” before referred to, will govern you in making your new Surveys; numbering the Sections
&c—and those of the 24" January last,” directing the mode of surveying the improvements of Settlers under the Armed occupation Act are modified in consequence of the passage of the Act of 15"
June last," amendatory of the Armed Occupation Act, so that the Settlers in all cases “in which settlements have been made under the provisions of said Act, upon lands not Surveyed before the issue of permit, —the Settler may, after survey locate his quarter Section in any legal subdivision of Continuous or contiguous Sections, or fractional Sections, so as to make up the quantity of one hundred and sixty Acres [as near]" as may be, and to include his improvements, and as much of the lands described in his permit as is consistent with the system of the public surveys;”—that is he can take continuous or contiguous half quarter Sections, so as to include his improvements and as much of the land desired by him, not exceeding one hundred and Sixty Acres, as can be embraced by regular, legal subdivisions or half quarter Sections of the same or different Sections.
You will immediately contract for this work, using rigid economy, and endeavour to have it done as low as possible consistant with correctness;—And under no Circumstances will you exceed the maximum per mile fixed by law, or the amount apportioned to your Office for the survey of the public lands, and for surveying private claims, the amount appropriated for that object; And that there may be no risk on this point, you will so estimate the amount of surveying in each contract, that the amount estimated shall certainly exceed the actual amount of surveying to be done in it.
In ordinary cases you will be governed by the instructions of 5"
August 1840 "—regulating the size of the Contracts, and the time to be allowed for their completion;—but particular Cases may arise where the interests of the Government may be advanced by enlarging the size of the Contracts, and extending the time for their completion. In such cases you will exercise a sound discretion, bearing in mind, however, that in all cases the plats for the surveys of one year

must be forwarded to this Office in time to be embraced in the proclamations of sales for the next, so that a fresh supply of lands may be annually brought into market, and the object of the appropriations be carried out, in extending the settlements, and increasing the public revenue. Consequently no Contract should be given out which will require such a length of time for its completion, that the plats cannot be returned in time for the sales of the next Season.
It is probable that most of the marks of the old Surveys in Your District were made by blazing pine trees, or deeply marking them so as to wound the tree. The turpentine exsuded from the wounds thus made, and flowed to the ground; and when the grass was fired in the fall, the flame would follow up the turpentine & burn out the marks made by the Surveyors. The wound in the tree would thus be enlarged, and the same consequences would follow, till the tree was burnt off, and in this way, it is supposed, the marks of the former surveys have been destroyed. To guard against accidents of this kind, you will instruct your Deputies in no case to mark pitch pine trees, but where suitable corner trees of other wood cannot be found, they must use stakes of hard wood squared to about six inches, into which they will deeply burn or mark the number of the Section, Township and Range, covering the top of the stake with tar & charing the end that is to be inserted in the ground. These stakes should be firmly planted in the ground, and mounds raised around them about three feet high. The witness trees should not be of pitch pine, where others can be obtained, but where they cannot, the pine trees should be simply marked in the bark in such a manner that the mark would be distinct, yet not so as seriously to wound the tree.
The plan of blazing the lines adopted by your Deputies should be abandoned, as that is the common mark for roads, tracts &" and in lieu of it they should indicate the lines run by them, by two or three chopps or hacks on the trees. Five Townships will be subdivided in each contract given out, to be selected by the Deputy with a view to the accommodation of settlers, and a ready sale of the lands. You will therefore require of each Deputy an affidavit, that the Townships subdivided were occupied by Settlers, or contained the best lands in his contract: and where he reports any part of his contract as “impracticable,” you will require his affidavit to that effect and a full statement of the causes that render it so. You will also require your Deputies to approach the Gulf coast as near as practicable, &
where they cannot survey to the actual coast, they will state that fact, and not meander the swamp bordering the Gulf, nor close their lines upon it, but leave them as unfinished surveys. Part of the Gulf Coast, it is stated, is cut up by streams, bayous &" into a multitude of Islands or Keys the Surveys of which would cost probably more

than the land would yield to the Government. In such cases the Deputy will restrict his operations to the main land, and not attempt the survey of those Islands as Keys.
You will be careful to have your Deputies correct their chains by the standard in your Office, and instruct them to ascertain at least in every Township, and as much oftener as necessary and state in their field notes so that it may be indicated upon the Township plats, the variation of the Magnetic Meridian; and where the Township boundaries, and Section lines are seen by different variations, that fact should be stated in the field notes, and introduced as a note upon the Township plat. In executing the resurveys above directed, they should also ascertain, and note down, the variations by which all the lines were run.
In every case in which you have doubt, you will please confer with this Office; and in all cases where you have reason to suspect the correctness of the work done by any of your Deputies, the necessary investigations should be immediately instituted;—And that every preliminary precaution may be taken to insure correctness in the returns, you will require the Deputies to give ample and satisfactory security for the faithful performance of their contracts; and in addition to the usual oath or affirmation required of them in entering upon each contract, you will notify them that the following oath or affirmation will be required to be affixed by them to the Field notes of each Township. Vizt.
I [Blank] Deputy Surveyor, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that in pursuance of a contract dated the [blank] day of [blank] 1844, with W.Y. Conway, Surveyor General of the United States for the Territory of Florida, and in strict conformity to the laws of the United States and instructions of said Surveyor General, I have regularly surveyed and subdivided into Section, Township (or Fractional Township) No
[Blank] of Range No [Blank] in the Territory of Florida. And I do further solemnly swear, that the foregoing are the true and original field notes of the said Survey and subdivision, executed as aforesaid.
A. B. Deputy Surveyor Subscribed and sworn to before me this [Blank] day of [Blank] 1844
C. D. Justice of the Peace (or other person duly qualified to administer Oaths.)
Whenever you make a Contract, please forward to this Office the Duplicate of it, and of the Bond given by the Deputy, with a Copy of his instructions, and a diagram exhibiting the surveys Contracted for.
I would suggest to you the expediency of directing your Deputies to make returns of the field notes of one or more Townships, as they progress with their work, so that the necessary examinations and pro-

tractions can go steadily forward, and the Township plats be regularly transmitted to this Office; and that the Deputies may be paid as their work is returned, for any part thus returned for which they may desire payment. The Township plats will be protracted under your immediate supervision, by draftsmen in whose integrity and Capacity you have the most perfect Confidence.”
Very respectfully Your Ob Svt.
</docbody>
<dochead>THO. H. BLAKE Commissioner THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>September 20" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>W. Y. CONWAY Esq Sur. Genl. St Augustine Florida SIR, By the Act of 17* June last, entitled “An Act making appropriations for the Civil and diplomatic expenses of Government for the fiscal year ending the thirtieth day of June 1845, and for other purposes,” four thousand five hundred dollars were appropriated “for Compensation of the Surveyor General of Florida and the Clerks in his Office” and of the appropriations heretofore made for the same object, a balance of fifteen hundred and fifty four 25/100
dollars still remains to your credit, making together the sum of six thousand and fifty four 25/100 dollars; of which, however, you cannot expend more than $875 for Clerk hire in any one quarter, that being one fourth of the amount allowed your Office for that object by the organic law of 9" May 1836.” One thousand dollars were also appropriated “for Salary of an Assistant Surveyor, to survey the private claims in Florida under the direction and supervision of the Surveyor General of Florida;” and fifteen hundred dollars
“for pay of chain carriers, markers, transportation, provisions &" "
In disbursing these appropriations you will use rigid economy and whenever possible, have the work done by the piece as directed by existing instructions, rather than giving a regular annual salary.
Under the appropriation of $1000 “for Salary of an Assistant Surveyor &" Col Francis L. Daney has been appointed to that Office and will be ordered to report himself to you for instructions, you will require him to take the usual oath of Office & to execute a Bond

to you with good and sufficient security in the sum of five thousand dollars, for the faithful performance of his duties.
The duties of this Office will be to aid you in making all such examinations, either in the Office or field, as you may deem necessary;
touching the survey of private claims in your District, to survey such private claims as you may direct, and in fact, under your supervision and direction to do any and every matter connected with the Surveys of private claims in your District, which you may deem essential or important to the public interest. The appropriation of $1500 for pay of chain carriers &" will be applied as therein specified to the payment of incidental expenses growing out of the examinations or surveys to be made by this Office.
In making up your Salary accounts, you will make separate charges under each distinct appropriation, and where piece work is given out, a detailed statement of the work done should accompany the quarterly accounts, with a tariff of the charges made for the work, certified by the Surveyor General over his own signature to each statement, that the statement and charges have been examined by him and found correct, and a separate receipt from the Clerk who did the work, should accompany the statement.
Although the Organic law gives $3.500 per annum for Clerk hire;"
it by no means follows that the Amount is to be expended and should the business of your Office increase so as to render necessary the employment of three Clerks, it would be better to restore the old rate of Compensation of $1000 per Annum. And thereby restrict the aggregate expenditure to that of the preceding year.
Your Accounts should therefore be made out somewhat in the following form. Vizt:
The United States in a/c with V. Y. Conway Surveyor General of Florida.
To my own Salary and the Salaries of the Clerks in my Office for the 3" quarter of 1844, under the appropriation of $4,500 per Act of
17" June 1844, and the balance of former appropriations. Vizt My own Salary $500.00
Salaries of Clerks, 1 Vizt— A.B. V1-375.00
C D V2.375.00 750.00
Under same Act, for Salary of an Assistant Surveyor to survey private claim &"E.F.—W3– 250.00
Under D9 for pay of Chain Carriers &" G. H. W4–150.00
J. K. V.5.125.00 275.00
Total $1.775.00

You will use the most vigorous measures to have your Office work of every kind keep pace with the surveys so that the Township plats may be forwarded as soon after the Surveys are executed as possible.”
Very respectfully Your Obt Sert THO. H. BLAKE Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. SWIFT TO JACOB E. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 7]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topogl. Engs. WASHINGTON September 20 1844</place-time>
<docbody>LIEUT J E. BLAKE Corps T Engs. S." Augustine Florida SIR, You were apprised in my communication of the 19" Ulto *
that your remarks in reference to surveys ordered in Florida, for a Rail Road across the peninsula, and for a Canal at the Haulover would be laid before the chief Topogl. Engineer for his consideration.
He has examined your reply to his letter of instructions of 24 July,"
and now calls your attention to the following extract from that communication.
“It has been represented to me, that ground highly eligible of a Rail road exists between Jacksonville and Post N° 4, near the Cedar Keys, and that all the difficulties of the route will be found between the harbor and this post. The distance from post N° 4 to big Kay, is about one mile and a half. This space will recieve your earliest and most careful attention, in order to determine the practicability of passing over it with a railroad; the probable cost of that distance, and its length. Having ascertained the route which the road should pursue over this space, and the point of the first land near post N° 4, with which it will communicate, you will then have the survey continued from that post to Jacksonville. It is not doubted that a previous reconnoissance of the ground will enable you to mark out the path for this survey with sufficient Accuracy to justify from its results a safe preliminary estimate, and a basis from which the road which hereafter may be constructed, can be definitely located.”
The Chief Topogl. Engr directs that you ascertain as a preliminary measure, all circumstances connected with this western terminus, for whether Pilatka or Jacksonville be the Eastern terminus, it in no wise affects the Western; it is known that the two former points afford good harbors, and that they are easily accessible both from the sea

and from the land, but in the case of the western terminus it is not known whether a good communication between the harbor at Cedar Keys and the main can be established by Railway. This question therefore will first receive your attention, and your surveys upon the Western side of the peninsula will be extended inland as far as Fort Walker, or some other point in the neighbourhood of the Alachua Prarie or Orange Lake, a point which would be common to both lines across the peninsula, one by Jacksonville and one by Pilatka. When the facts are collected you will report the results to this Bureau together with an estimate of funds necessary to complete the surveys of both lines, in case the sum now appropriated should be found to be insufficient.
In reference to the Haulover Canal; inasmuch as you have been notified by the General commanding the troops in Florida that he can afford you no assistance in officers or men, you will proceed after having completed the Surveys for the Railroad, to make such examinations as will enable you to state the cost of constructing a Canal at the Haulover independently of any aid from the troops."
As there are no officers of the Corps unemployed, you are authorized to engage an assistant at a rate not exceeding three dollars per day.
Very Respectfully Your Obt Servt
(sd) W H SWIFT Captain T E In charge of Bureau THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO CHARLES S. SIBLEY
<source>[NA:SD, Dom. Letters, XXXIV]</source>
<place-time>Department of State WASHINGTON 27th Sept 1844</place-time>
C S SIBLEY Esqre Attorney of the United States for the Middle district of Florida—Tallahassee.
SIR: I have examined with care the evidence transmitted to this Department upon the subject of the charges preferred against you by Governor Call of Florida, of maliciously prosecuting him by presenting two indictments against him, for nuisance and compromising a Criminal prosecution for money, and I am happy to inform you that

the conclusion at which I have arrived is, that the charges are wholly unfounded."
I am sir &c &c JNO C CALHOUN.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO AMOS M. ALEXANDER</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book Q-I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT Oct 14 1844</place-time>
<docbody>P.M. Newport Leon, Co. Fl. Ty.
In reply to yours of the 4" inst." you are directed, if practicable, to inform this Dept. what amount of postage was charged on each of the missing letters therein mentioned and whether the same was unpaid or paid: also, in relation to those mailed at your own office, whether they were mailed direct or for Distribution, and if for distribution, to what distributing office they were sent.
When this information is received, the case will be referred, for investigation, to Lawrence G. Alexander, Esq. one of the Spl. Agents of this Dept.: who, if successful, will duly advise you of the result."
C.A.W. By S.B.B."
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25.71]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT October 18" 1844</place-time>
<docbody>BREVET BRIGADIER GENERAL W" J. WORTH, Florida.
SIR, Notwithstanding the President of the United States places firm reliance upon your official reports in reference to the present

condition of the Seminoles in Florida, and is fully impressed with the belief that under your command a safe and pacific disposition has been established and manifested amongst those Indians, yet, it is thought that the safer policy requires their removal from the Territory. Their emigration would be an act of humanity towards the Indian—would be safety to him from any wanton or provoked outbreak, and would save the inhabitants of Florida from all uneasiness, whether real or groundless.
You will, therefore, resort, without delay, to the adoption of all peaceful means to induce the remnant of Indians in Florida to emigrate to the country West of the Mississippi river. Military force will be avoided, and the arts of persuasion be alone resorted to—
and then, presuming your influence and persuasion thus exercised, will be successful, the emigration will be conducted with gentleness and humanity. Those Indians, if they have any reflection or sagacity, must be convinced that their present residence is only temporary, and that their safety and ultimate happiness must depend upon their removal and joining their brethren in the West. No one can be responsible for the continuance of perfect tranquillity—one mischievous white man, or one revengeful Indian, may disturb the whole country and produce much disaster.
In making your arrangements for the emigration, the Indians will be informed that the Commissioner of Indian Affairs is now in progress with a negotiation by Commissioners to adjust the difficulties that have heretofore disturbed both the Creeks and Seminoles and prevented a portion of the latter under Wild Cat and others from settling upon their own land West of the Mississippi, and that final measures will will be adopted, very probably this fall, by the Government to assign or secure homes for the future residence of the Seminoles according to their wishes.
In giving these instructions it is necessary I should express the opinion that they cannot be considered as an infraction of the Military arrangements made by you in July and August 1842.” If it is now reasonably apprehended that safety to the Indians themselves and the tranquillity of the Territory require the change neither party should object, particularly when the Government will conduct the change agreeably to justice & humanity. The arrangement to which I refer must always yield to public policy.
W. W.

</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN LOUD TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Corres. Relating to Armed Occupation:C]</source>
<place-time>Copy CEDAR KEYS Oct 25* 1844</place-time>
<docbody>THO" H. BLAKE Esq Com Gen. Land Office RESP" SIR Last winter I wrote you making enquiries &c relative to the islands on the Coast of Florida & whether they could be held under the Armed Occupation Act,” to which you replied that they could not & that the Permit to Augustus Steele for Depot Key about which I particularly called your attention, was directed to be annulled ”—but to which notification so far as Mr Steele is concerned not the least regard has been paid, he having continued to exercise, and that arbitrarily, as full authority in and about the island as though he were the bona-fide owner, pulling down & erecting buildings-selling rights to land and taking them away again, because he deems himself free from any obligation to comply by the terms of the law under which he pretends to hold—and so far as the notification is concerned, he defies the Government to deprive him, as he says, of his rights, and that he will show the Department whether they can set aside a law of Congress & permits, issued by the Land Officers at Newmansville for the occupation of Land under that law, by substituting their own will. He forgetting that any laws having reference to the subject of lands, and using language belonging to the science of Geography, that the words must be construed to have the same meaning in the law, that they have in the science—thus as the law was for the Armed Occupation of the peninsula of Florida, it could not embrace islands on the coast. Independent of those other considerations which as I stated in my former letter were fatal in my estimation to the validity of his grant,-yet now from not having cultivated land as the law requires—within the year of the date of his permit he has in addition forfeited all claim to the island.
In the letter before referred to, I suggested & allow me again to urge the importance of having the island surveyed & laid out in lots &
sold at public sale, the longer this is delayed, the greater the difficulty become, from the erection of Buildings of various kinds—as at present it is the Depot of the trade of the Suwannee, and there are now

suggest (if it would not be thought intruding my opinion on the Secy of the Treasury) that Mr Steele be instantly removed from his office here as Collector of the Port (Deputy of St Marks but the only officer here) as it is wrong for any one to be continued as an Officer under Govt & at the same time opposing & defying them.
There is another subject to which I would wish to call your attention & which is alike due from me as every other citizen. There is a man here of the name of W" Crawford who took up one of these Islands, also under the Armed Occupation Act, but who is now trying at the land office at Newnansville to make an exchange for it, for what is called Black Island, pretending it is Main land, tho the water surrounds it & it was entered under that law, by a person of the name of Wolk as an island, he being taken to it & shewn it as such by the same Crawford. But what I wished particularly to name is, that he has for sometime past been cutting Live Oak therefrom for sale, which is in violation of law. I presume you will take immediate action in the case—he has a partner or Partners, I believe in the business, a mercantile house here, but there are men here who can testify, positively on both those subjects which I cannot not having been on the Island since Crawford took possession, but Tho" H. Parsons Tho"
Duffield, Tho" Seelman Alex Calligan & others can.
By addressing me at Columbus Col Cy E.F. I should receive any reply you may deem proper to favor me with.
Resp” yours JOHN LOUD
[Endorsed] Cedar Keys E.F. Oc"25, 1844, John Loud makes enquiry relative to Augustus Steele holding Depot Key under the Armed Occupation Act See letters to Secy of Treasy; Secy of the Navy, John Loud Esq & Regr at Newnansville, Nov 21* 1844.”
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR BRANCH TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Lets. from Execs. of Terrs.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Executive Office TALLAHASSEE–October 28th 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith transmit to you a copy of a letter which I sent to the Treasury Department on the 14th. of August last"—and respectfully invite your early attention to it.
The State House is in an unfinished and exposed condition, and must remain so until the appropriation, made by Congress for its completion, is obtained.

As the act making the appropriation seems to forbid its application to “any excess of expenditure heretofore made beyond former appropriations for that object;” and furthermore, as by making such application the purpose of Congress in “completing and rendering secure and tenantable the State House in Florida” would be partially defeated; I respectfully ask for instructions from the Department as to the propriety of my paying off such arrearages as may have accrued prior to the passage of said act.
In order that you may have before you, all the light on the subject, which I have in my office, I herewith enclose copies of the last Reports from the Commissioner of the Tallahassee Fund.”
I have the honor to be Your Ob"S"
JN° BRANCH
HON. GEO. M. BIBB Secy of the Treasury
[Endorsed] Hon John Branch Gov' of Florida 28 Octo 1844 as to appropriation for State House in Florida F 174, Nov. 6/44 Ela”
</docbody>
<dochead>THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL TO THOMAS F. HUNT</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD QMG Lets. Sent, Bk. 36]</source>
<place-time>November 1* 1844</place-time>
<docbody>LT: COL” THOMAS F HUNT, Deputy Q Mr General, St. Augustine, Florida.
SIR, On the application of the Hon: I. H. Bronson, Judge of the Eastern district of Florida, the Secretary of War has decided that such of the public buildings at Fort King as shall be necessary for the accommodation of the courts when holding their session for Marion County, be placed in the possession of the Marshall of the Territory for that purpose and no other—You will, accordingly, with the approbation of General Worth, turn over to the Marshall the necessary buildings for the sessions of the Court and for Offices for its several Officers, taking his obligation that he, or his successors in Office, shall restore them to the agent of the Quarter Masters Department should they become necessary for military purposes.
As other buildings may be required for the accommodation of the court and the citizens who may attend it, you are authorized to rent any of them, not at present required by the public, to responsible citizens who may desire to occupy them. The conditions will be to keep them in good repair & restore them whenever required for public use
(signed) T. S.JESUP Q. M. General.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 20]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Novr. 4” 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: D. LEVY M.C. Washington City SIR; Your letter of the 17" ultimo to the Secretary of War calling attention to your previous two letters of June 13" and July 11"
has been referred to this Office,” and in reply, I am instructed to say, that the whole of the Military reserve at Tampa Bay being required for public uses, it cannot be reduced. A letter to this purport was written on the 13" of June last in reply to an inquiry addressed to the Department on the 9" of May” by the Hon: F. G.
M°Connell,” of the Military Committee, and I am directed to say that the views expressed in that letter remain unchanged.
I am Sir, &c.
L. THOMAS, A. A. Gen'
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO GOVERNOR BRANCH</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 10]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY, 7" Nov. 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. JOHN BRANCH, Governor of the Territory of Florida, Tallahassee.
SIR, Your letter of the 28" ult, with its inclosures, is received"—
The instructions you ask, appear in the proviso of the appropriation in question. It is not in my power to render their import and design more clear.
If expenditures exceeding the amount of the former appropriation of 3" March, 1839,” have been incurred upon contracts entered into without authority of Congress, they must be provided for by the local authority which directed them.
Such is the general policy of Congress in regard to Territorial expenditures as appears by the second Section of the act of 29"
Aug. 1842.”—In this particular case, every doubt as to the proper application of the appropriation of the last session is put at rest by the express enactment, that it shall not be construed to sanction any excess of expenditure beyond former appropriations for that object. However inconvenient it may be to require the authority
7" The three letters mentioned have not been found.

which sanctioned the expenditures referred to in the report of the Commissioner to you of the 24" ult." to make good its engagements, there seems to be no alternative but to pursue the provisions of the Act.
I would suggest that for such sums as you may deem necessary from time to time to complete and render secure and tenantable the State-House in Florida independent of the engagements entered into without authority of Congress, if you will be pleased to draw orders or requisitions in favor of the Treasurer of the Territory, they will be attended to without delay, until the amount shall be drawn.80
I am &c.
GEO. M. BIBB, Secy. of the Treasy.
</docbody>
<dochead>JOHN J. ABERT TO JOHN MACKAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Issued, Bk. 8]</source>
<place-time>Bureau of Topogl. Engs. WASHINGTON November 22 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>CAPTAIN J. MACKAY Corps. T. Engs. Savannah Ga.
SIR, There was an appropriation during last session of Congress for removing obstructions to the navigation of the rivers Choctahatchie &
Holmes, ten thousand dollars; and also for the removal of obstructions to the navigation of the River St Marks above the confluence of the Wakulla river 2500 dollars.”
The only information we have in reference to the first (Choctahachee & Holmes.) will be found in the inclosed letters.” In reference to the second it has been stated that the difficulties to be removed are impending trees & snags.
The first enters into Choctahatchie bay, which communicates with Pensacola bay by Santa Rosa Sound.
It is presumed that the difficulties on each River consist in Snags rafts and impending trees, but without precise information directions in reference to the work cannot be given.
You will therefore as soon as practicable make an examination of these rivers and report results to this office. Lieut Smith will accompany you & funds to meet the expenses of the examination will be furnished on your requistion.”
Very Respectfully your Obt Servt J. J. ALBERT Col. Corps T. E.

</docbody>
<dochead>JOSEPH B. BROWNE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Lets. from Judges, Marshals, Attys.: Dup]</source>
<place-time>Duplicate U.S. Marshals Office KEY WEST Nov” 23rd 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. Enclosed I have the Honor to transmit you my Accounts for the Nov" Term of the Court which I trust will be found correct. In relation to Geo Stafford Special Jailors bill, I have to state that we have no secure Jail here, for two reasons, first because it is in a ruinous condition and Second because it is situated half a mile from the town, in the bushes, and if repaired could be broken at any moment, with assistance from the outside, which has invariably been done heretofore when any prisoners were confined there, and in order to keep prisoners we have to hire a house in town and keep a regular guard to watch it—
The Jailor has had nearly the whole time ten or twelve prisoners in custody, and has charged only as for one man at the rate of three Dollars per day, which I consider reasonable, and hope it may be allowed without any further explanation.”
I have the Honor to remain Very respectfully Sir Your Most Ob"
SV*
J. B. BROWNE U.S. Marshal, Southern District of Florida THE HON. G. M. BIBB, Sec" of the Treasury Washington City D.C
[Endorsed] Marshal of Southern Florida. 7 Dec 44 respecting Jail &c remittance made 7 Dec K, 69. Dec 26/44 Ela.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Judges, Marshals, Attys.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys Office JACKSONVILLE, E. F. Dec 13* 1844</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. At the instance of my friend Gov" Duval, I take the liberty to say, that he informs me that you promised him, before he left Washington, that you would Send to Congress an estimate for the balance due to me, for my Services in defending claims to lands, under the Acts of Congress of 23 May 1828," and 28" May 1830;” and recommend an appropriation to pay it: permit me, Sir, to suggest that such estimate ought in justice to amount to a Sufficient Sum to cover the balance

that was due to me when I was in Washington last August, & also my compensation for this branch of Service for the residue of the Current Year.—There are yet a considerable number and amount of these claims remaining unadjusted in this District.
This, being a more convenient location for the business of the District, than S*Augustine, has (together with some other considerations) induced me to remove my office from that place, to this—
Please therefore to cause all future communications from your Department to me, to be addressed to me here.
With great respect I am Sir, Yours &c THO DOUGLAS
HON. GEO. M. BIBB Secretary of the Treasury City of Washington.
D. C.
[Endorsed] T Douglas Dist Atty of E Florida 13 Dec 1844 prepare estimate to be sent in—G. M. B.
</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred December 16, 1844]</place-time>
<docbody>To the honorable the Speaker, and House of Representatives in Congress Assembled The undersigned Citizens of East Florida, beg leave to petition your honorable body, for the opening and establishment of a public Road from S." Augustine to S' Lucia on St Lucia Sound via New Smyna—Your petitioners ask leave to state that within the last twelve Months, the number of enterprising emigrants who have taken out permits and Commenced Settlements on the St Lucia Sound and its vicinity, under the Army occupation bill, amounts, including their families, to about Twelve hundred Souls. These hardy adventurers, thus located near Three hundred miles South from S' Augustine, which is the nearest, of the old Settlements, have had to encounter incredible privations and hardships. They are Composed principally of persons of limited means, whose enterprising spirits, and indomitable Courage, to surmount all pecuniary embarrasments, and forego all the comforts of the “old fireside” have been induced to meet hardships and fatigue, to which they were heretofore strangers, with a Cherfulness truly Commendable.
Most of them have had to Make their tours of Exploration and Settlement, (After arriving at St Augustine) by what is termed the inland passage.—I—E—in Small boats and Canoes through the intricate and dificult Lagoons marshes and mangrove Islands, of Mosquito and Indian Rivers, (interrupted by several haulovers, 

which can only be passed with extraordinary and painful labor:)
over a Space of from Three to Four hundred miles. The greater portion of these hardy and worthy emigrants have yet to remove their families, moveables and Stock, to do by the above described inland navigation, rout, is utterly impossible! To do so by Coast navigation, around Gape Cape Canaveral, is dangerouse, expensive, and equally as objectionable as the other rout—and these two methods of travel or transportation, are now the only two that can be embraced by either the Emigrant Traveler or invalid, Formily the Old King's Road was open and in good order from S" Augustine to New Smyrna, But during the late Seminole War it has been destroyed, or by natural decay, become impassible. It is now in Contemplation to recommence the settlement of New Smyrna this fall—And already a large number of Planters have returned to their plantations recently made desolate by the Savage Seminole—near this once flourishing and prosperous Settlement, When your honorable body reflects upon the facts connected with the subject-matter for which your petitioners pray the isolated situation of the settlers of New Smyrna—S" Lucie—Lake Worth—and still farther down the eastern Coast of the peninsula—
their respectable and growing numbers and importance—the hardships and sufferings they have encountered; they Confidently anticipate that the fostering hand of a great and good Government will be extended, and that your honorable body will make such appropriations as in their wisdom they shall deem necessary to open and establish a road from St Augustine to S' Lucie via New Smyrna; And to that end Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray.
W H Simmons W. M. Ives Geo Center John C. Hather A. F. Woods Geo: Petty Thos. T. Russell Vento T. Aguair David R. Dunham D. Wheeler Francis Dustan Cha" Robion S. Cooper Benjamin C. Dupont F. L. Dancey'
D Richards Mich' Hearn Geo Bartlett Geo: J. Zehnbaun Sam Northrop John Simpson L. H. Hearn John Carrera Henry Covert M. Frintz Charles Taylor Jos: S Sanchez A Magee C Willey J. D. Hart Rodney Donnay J G Landon

F L OR I. D. A
G. Yale G O Pickett David Silzack George Braning John M. J. Boudin Robert Robertson Joshua Fenimore James James Oscar Hart C. L. Brayton Sam H. Peck Peter Worthington Peter Jansen Robert Dunlop John Smith Littleton Godwin E. Campfield Thomas E. Hitt D. B. Edes M. Rudler Sebastian Rudler Emenuel Gomez N. F. Merrill Bradford Southwick James Krosh J. H. Beecroft W T Cumming Ja” E Hearn T. O. Hearn Jo" Gurcey Jun"
F. Bridier John C. Cleland T. Weedon John W. Saeniny G. Humphry Wm G DaVis G E Llambias M E Levy K. Goldstien John P. Zylstra Thos Morison E. J. Dummett Bernardo Segui Wm H. Farrar Ossian B. Hart John Price Jr Thos Telfair Long A. D. Hall C. S. Emery A W Crichton Tho: B. Bellows—
Tho' W, Jones Calvin Read Uriah Poinsett James Plummer W. G. Christopher Robert Bigelow
[Endorsed] Florida. O S Brayton & others for a road from St Augustine to S' Lucia Decr 16" 1844 Refrd to the Committee on Roads & Canals Roads & Canals,” Levy THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN
</docbody>
<dochead>PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, Dec 17th 1844</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER & RECEIVER at Newnansville E. Florida.
GENTLEMEN Having further and more maturely considered the Scope and provisions of the 2" Section of the Amendatory Act of

15th of June 1844,” I am of Opinion particularly in view of the 40
Acre principle recognized in the 4* Section of it, that the Same principle may govern in the locations contemplated by the 2" Section of Said Act.
The 2"Section gives to Settlers the privilege of making Contiguous Selections in tracts of any legal Subdivisions, and by that general term, is understood tracts of eighty Acres, being the Smallest quantity Subject to Sale, except under the Special Act of the 5" of April 1832,”
supplementary to the several laws for the sale of public lands, reducing it to forty Acres where the Applicant files his Affidavit setting forth the particulars specified in the Act.
That Act is not applicable to the cases of settlers under the Armed Occupation Act. The 4* Section of the Amendatory Act of June
15th 1844, however authorizes the settler under the Original law, to select forty Acre tracts where the title of the Government to the premises located shall prove defective & I can perceive no propriety for making a difference between the two classes of cases, or that the smallest quantity mentioned may not be selected under it.
You will therefore consider my instructions of the 26" July last "
as rescinded, and permit settlers to make their selections under the
2" Section of the Act above referred to, in quarter quarter Sections having respect to compactness of form.
I am Very Respy Your Obedt Serv"
THO: H. BLAKE Commissioner THOMAS H. 
</docbody>
<dochead>BLAKE TO BUCKINGHAM SMITH</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, 18" December 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>BUCKINGHAM SMITH Esq St. Augustine E. Florida SIR, Your letter of 31st October last " was duly received on 11"
Ultimo, and the information sought for is herein furnished, as soon as it was found convenient at this pressing season of business.
1—Land sold and granted in the whole Territory of Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.167.439 acres.
2—Land sold and granted in E.Florida. 1.398.366 acres

3—The amount of purchase money of 877,381 acres sold in the whole Territory . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1.138.068.
Average price per acre $1.29°.7". . . . . . . . . . .
4 The amount of purchase money of 77.366 acres sold in E. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $96.742. Average price per acre $1.25°
5. The number of acres held under British, & Spanish grants as far as laid down on the Surveyor's returns:
In the whole Territory . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.939.789 acres In East Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 414.135 “
6—The quantity unsold subject to entry:
In the whole Territory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,715.680 acres”
In East Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.857.201 “
I am, respectfully Your obt Servt THO H BLAKE Commissioner.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Letters to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Reg & Rec Newnansville E.F. Dec 19, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>GENTLEMEN Enclosed are nine Certificates as follows. Wiz:
Sec. Tps— R. East B.M. Byrne and J.W. McCrabb July 6, 1839. NE qr & E% NW3% 11 17 16
go & 4 & 4 & 4 * * & 4 & 4 s & & 4 NE Qr & NW qr 12 17 16
& & 4 & & 4 4 & 4 & 6 & 64 4 & s & W% Of SW qr 2 17 16
Samuel Worthington Dec 17, 1838 SW qr 33 6 19
s & & 4 & 4 64 & 4 E% of SE qr 32 6 19
se s & & 4 & © & 4 E% of SE qr 30 6 19
66 * & & 4 4 & 6 a. SW% of SW3% 28 6 19 4.4 & 4 s & & 4 & 4 South half 29 6 19
& s 66 4 & 4 & 6 s. NE% of NW3% 32 6 19
These certificates are for lands purchased from John C. Cleland, former Receiver of public moneys at S*Augustine, of which he failed to make return. They are among the cases designed to be remedied by the Act of 15" June last.”
The Register will please affix to these certificates the date of the day on which he receives them, sign them and number them in continuation of his regular series of numbers.
In order that the correspondence between the Register's and the Receiver's series of numbers may be preserved, the Receiver will issue for each one of these Certificates a blank form of receipt bearing the same number with it.
On these blanks he will endorse “purchase money received by John C. Cleland” and he will be careful not to charge himself with the amounts either in his monthly abstract or quarterly account.
These directions being complied with, these Certificates and the corresponding blank receipts will be embraced in the proper monthly return to this Office.
Very Respectfully Your Ob*S*
THO. H. BLAKE Comm

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO GOVERNOR BRANCH</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 10]</source>
<place-time>DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY, 21* Dec. 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. JOHN BRANCH-Governor of Florida–Tallahassee—
SIR, I duly received your letter of the 7" inst." advising that three drafts amounting to $2.500 had been placed by you on this Department to be paid out of the appropriation of $20.000—for completing and rendering secure and tenantable the State-House in Florida. They have been referred to the accounting officers and will be paid and charged to that appropriation. Allow me to suggest in accordance with the Comptroller, that the drafts hereafter drawn, may expressly state that they are drawn in execution of the Act of 17* June 1844 *—and to submit whether it would not be more regular to draw them in favor of the Treasurer of the Territory and negotiated by him to the parties entitled, as pointed out in my letter to you of the 7" ult.”
I am &c.
GEO. M. BIBB—Secy. of the Treasy.
<dochead>WALKER ANDERSON TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U.S. Attys. and Clks. (Fla.) :ALS]</source>
Office of the U.S. Atty for W Flor:
PENSACOLA Decr 24" 1844–
SIR. During the last Summer Lt Ebenezer Farrand of the U.S.
Navy reported to me the names of a number of Trespassers upon the lands of the U.S. Situated in this District, in conformity with instructions which he had received from the Navy Department.
Lt Farrand's examination was confined to a portion of St Rosa County, which lies Contiguous to this County, and he found that in that portion, about 50000 acres of land had been stripped of pine timber which alone gave it any value.—His examination of the Country was very minute and he procured very accurate information, both as to the trespassers and the extent of depredation upon each eighth of a section within the range of his enquiries, so that in carrying the cases into court I was furnished with an amount of testimony rairly obtainable in Such cases & which I thought abundlently Sufficient to Sustain the prosecution in every case reported. Acting under the implied instructions of the Navy Department which had directed

Lt Farrand to confer with me I prepared at the last term of the U.S.
Court for Santa Rosa County forty eight bills of indictment under the Act of the 2" March 1831 * (Vol. 8. page 461) against the trespassers whose names had been reported to me by Lt Farrand, and sent them before the Grand Jury with the witnesses to prove the facts and the extent of the tresspasses As I have reported to you in my general Semi-annual statement every bill was ignored—It does not become me to report my Conjectures as to the cause of the failure of these bills, I will only mention therefore as facts from which you may draw your own conclusions, that the foreman of the G. Jury was charged with having cut down more than 8000 acres of of the public lands, and a majority of the Jury are also charged with being offenders under the same law. I
have also Since the bills are were ignored understood both from the foreman & other members of the G. Jury that they were satisfied notwithstanding the charge of the Judge, that the law of 1831 was not intended to apply to persons cutting Pine timber on the Public lands. I am myself of opinion that the law was designed primarily to protect, the live oak, and red cedar growing upon the reserved lands—the caption of the act—the phraseology of the whole act and the duty of enforcing its penalties, being confided to the Secretary of the Navy, all indicate the object of the law to have been to protect timber valuable for Naval purposes from depredation, but it is equally clear to my mind that the terms of the act enlarges its operation So as to include all tresspasses upon any public land who cut and carry away any timber whatsoever I respectflly solicit from you an opinion on this point and also further instructions as to my duty in prosecuting this matter. There are two other counties belonging to this judicial district, in either of whch the Subject would be more impartially examined than it is possible to have it done in Santa Rosa County Shall I lay the bills of indictment before the Grand Jury of one of those other Counties? Lt Farrand reports to me that there are many more tresspassers in Santa Rosa County than those with whose names I have been furnished.
I have the honor further to report to you, that inasmuch as the law of 1831 is restricted in its application, by the act of limitations of April 30" 1790 " to tresspasses committed within the last two years, and the tresspasses reported to me by Lt Farrand, had extended over a period of ten or fifteen years, I deemed it my duty

to institute a number of civil actions of tresspass in behalf of the United States against the persons reported to me as trespassers.
These Suits were brought at the late term of Santa Rosa Court and were continued to the Spring Term. A preliminary question was however mooted and decided at this Term, upon which I respectfully Solicit your opinion, as it will probably be taken to the Court of Appeals, should there be a final judgment against any of the defendants. The ground was taken by the Counsel of the defendants that the U. States Courts in Florida have no right to entertain a Common Law action of trespass, when the U States is the party plaintiff. The position was maintained with much ingenuity, but the plea was overruled by the Court—As the trespasses upon the pine timber of this part of the Country have been very extensive, and are being Carried on at this time upon a very extensive scale, the interests of the Government demand, that its officers here should be punished with the best advice and the most precise instructions.
The performence of my duty in this regard has already been met with much feeling on the part of the alleged trespassers, but I shall not be deterred from discharging my duty, by obstacles of that nature, tho' it will make me solicitous not to transcend the bounds which duty prescribes. I ask then respectfully for full and minute instructions and that you may the better understand the whole case I beg leave to refer you to Lt Farrands reports to the Secretary of the Navy, of his agency in this business.
Supposing it to be my duty to make a report to the Secretary of the Navy upon this subject, I shall enclose to him a copy of this letter I have the honor to be Sir with much respect Your obedient Servant WALKER ANDERSON U.S. Attorney for W. Flor HON: C. B. PENROSE Solicitor of the Treasury Washington
[Endorsed] W. Anderson U.S. atty for W. Fla. Dec 24" 1844
Letter in relation to Trespasses on public lands. M. Reiley" Secy of Navy to be furnished with copy of this & reply of this Office Consider the questions so as to confer with Solicitor. We seem free from all difficulty except what arises from the dishonesty of the juries Ans". January 8, 1845. & same day sent copy of the reply &
of this letter to the Sec. of the Navy.
"John Reiley, clerk in Bureau of Construction, Equipment, and Repair.
* Post, p. 990.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>Dec 24, 1844</place-time>
<docbody>REG" & REC Newnansville E. F.
GENTLEMEN, Enclosed herewith I send you an abstract compiled from the reports of Geo: W. Cole Receiver at S*Augustine, of entries or applications for entry which from various evidence, appear to have been made with John C. Cleland, formerly Receiver at S*Augustine.”
None of these cases have been regularly returned to this Office. In many of them, however, it is not doubted, that, could an original receipt from Cleland be produced here, the patents could be issued, under the Act of 15" June last;" and in many more (the most of the cases in which the patents could not be issued) that the purchase money could be refunded, or other lands be entered.
As many of these are without doubt cases of hardship, which the Office feels every desire to relieve with the least possible delay, you will please make every effort in your power, by careful search among your files, and by correspondence with the parties interested, to procure the original receipts, or, where they have been lost, authentic evidence of that fact, which, when procured, you will please transmit to this Office that the final action may be taken upon them.
You will also please notify the parties that wherever they claim by pre-emption it will be necessary for them to forward to this office their pre-emption proof, where they have not already done so."
Very respectfully Your Ob"S"
THO. H. BLAKE Commr
8 Present.
95 STAT. 673.
"See post, p. 1050.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO WILLIAM H. SIMMONS AND GEORGE W. COLE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 18]</source>
<place-time>December 30th 1844.</place-time>
<docbody>REG & RECV* St Augustine E. F.
GENTLEMEN, The following are entries which appear to have been made with John C. Cleland, formerly Receiver at St Augustine, but which have never been regularly returned to this Office, Viz:
Sec. T. R.
June 22d 1839. Rafael T. Goff Lots 1 & 7 18. 2. 27
** * * * * Same Fractional 17. 2. 27 July 4th ” Calvin Reed Lot 7. 13. 4. 26 July 31* * Wm H. Simmons Lots 9. 10 & 11 9. 6. 27 June 26, 1838 John S. Montmollin Lots 4.5. 6. & 9 2. 9. 27
* * * * * * Same Lots 1. 2. 3.4 11. 9. 27 55 ** ** Same ” 25, 1839 John Warren Lots 1 & 2 24. 4. 26
** * * * * Same Whole of 1. 4. 26
** * * * * Same Lots 3.4 & 5 18. 2. 26 Acres 86.85 20.29 49.75 153.88 189.25
220.03
75.52
102.07
4.38
129.82
Dollars
108.56
25.36
62.18
192.35
225.36
275.03
94.40
127.58
5.47
162.27
Before the relief intended to be afforded by the Act of 15" June last" can be extended to these cases, or any other final action can be had upon them, it will be necessary that the original receipts from Cleland, or, where the recepts have been lost, authentic evidence of that fact, be deposited in this office.
or this evidence, or if by correspondence with the parties interested you can procure them, please to do so, and for-
If any of the parties claimed by pre-emption, notify them that this office must be put in possession of their pre emption proof.
Very respectfully Your obedient Servant ward them as early as practicable.
115 STAT. 673. If your files contain these receipts THO H BLAKE Commissioner

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY CITIZENS OF EAST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 1 sess. :DS]</source>
<place-time>[No date, 1844 c.]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, the petition of the subscribers Citizens of East Florida respectfully showeth that the policy of the General Government in respect to the integrity of the various Indian tribes resident within the United States was adopted and has been pursued for the purpose of preserving their Identity as Independant nations that the attempt to extend that policy to the Seminole tribes resident in Florida resulted in a long and grievedus struggle between the United States and the Seminoles, in consequence of the Endeavours of the former to remove the latter from the vicinity of the white population of this state to a country provided for them westward of the Mississippi river. The Seminoles desired to remain in their native country.
& they So far Succedeed in their opposition to removeal that a Large boddy of them Still remains, Settled by consent of goverment in the Southern part of Florida—that the general goverment still pursueing the same policy towards the Seminoles though foiled by the means employed to remove them passed an act on the 4” of August 1842
Entitled an act to provide for the armed occupation & settlement of the peninsula of East Florida * the Said act provides that any person who shall settle with in the Seminole Country or the Limits described in said act & reside therein for the period of five years according to the Law Shall be entitled to a patent for one hundred & sixty acres of Land or one quarter section as a Donation from the United States that the object the General Goverment intended to attain by granting this donation of Land was the occupation & settlement of the county acquired by the war from which the Seminoles had retired or were driven. & also for the purpose of conveying to the minds of the simple natives in a practical way the imposibility of their remaining in the district of country Set apart for them in the peace arrangements of General Worth. & the absolute necesity of their ultimate removeal to a country where they would not be Exposed to the inroads of the whites that the opperation of Said act so far as it has been permitted has been Extremely beneficial reduceing the Seminole reservation, thereby promoteing the policy of the United States, & the welfare of this State, peopling the Country abandoned by the indians &
placeing it it is hoped on Endureing & firm safeguard against further
125 STAT. 502-504. 

hostile aggressions from the Seminoles. The Settlements made by this act spread over the greater part of South Florida not now in posession of the Indians are of the most permanent caracter & would have been much more widely Extended had it not been for the Limitation of the act itself & the assignment of a Large part of the Lands appropriated for this purpose to the Seminoles who yet remain to be removed that the object of the Law (viz) the permanent Settlement of the Country & the Exclusion of the Indians from the Soil So far as the act itself & the attendant Circumstances would permit has been fully accomplished & no good reason now remains why the provisions of the Said act anexing Conditions to the donation may not be so modified as to put the holders of permits into the immediate posession of the Lands described therein that Such an amendment of the Law will be productive of varied benefits immediately to the Settler. Indirectly to the State, &
more remotely to the general Interests of the United States. For the Settler would come at once into the Enjoyment of the fruits of near four years toil & privation, the State revenue will be relieved by the removeal of the Exemption from the Large body of Land Claimed under this act, & the United States will have increased demands for the public Lands adjacent to those donations that your petitioners are Citizens of the United States & of this State they have done Every duty as Such, paid taxes for the suport of Goverment & caried armes in its defence & in fact have performed all the duties accorded to them as Citizens to perform they believe your Honourable Body did not intend to Load the Settler with more duty than what might be Sufficient to Secure the object of the Grant they are of opinion the uncertainty attending the Location of permits & settlements thereto is a Serious impediment to Locations by purchaseers or those who desire to purchase when the remaining Lands come into market & your petitioners are of opinion that at this precise time all proper means should be used to increase the number of inhabitants in South Florida there is no more effectual way to do this than by encourageing Emigration from the neighboring States Finally that the policy of the United States in respect to the preservation of the indian tribes as independant nations as far as contemplated by this act has been fully sustained by its opperation, & the permanency of the settlements made under the Same undoubted having put the country on the Seminole border into the hands of the poor but hardy farmers who have Endured innumerable privations & difficulties thus confineing the Seminoles to the district assigned them within the borders of this State by the general goverment & so not only fulfilling the intention of the

Law but also determining to all intents & purposes the period of Service annexed as a condition to the donations therefore your petitioners humbly pray your honourable body in your wisdom & Justice to relieve us from so much of the opperation of the armed occupation act by amending the same So that upon proof made as required by Said Law the patents may issue forth with to the Settlers whome permits have been granted & your petioners beg Leave respectfully to refer your Honourable body to the memorial of the general assembly of the state of Florida recommending this matter to the Serious Consideration of Congress as further proof of the importance of the subject now presented & for the accomplishment of the object of this petition according to the true intent & meaning thereof.
your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray Geo Helveston A. Waterman A. H. Brooks John Bullock Wyley Brooks John Scott Spencer Brooks George Young Jno. G. Reardon Jonathan Lyons C. A. M. Mitchel E. D. Howse Willis J. Spann William Roberts Samuel Quattlebone Thomas Zimmer William Blair John M*Kelvey J. H. Harden Josiah Paine James Judkins Alexander M*Leech Louis M*Coskey John Goyski John Morrison Elijah Folsom John Holden James H. Smith Reason W. Judkins John L. Branch Isam Branch George Hand William Piles Charles Weeks Lemuel Griggs James Hall Thomas Barnes Lewis Ballard Ja” C Ballard William Ballard Henry W Dickson Epy W. Ballard Wm H. Bleach Willis Bleach John Bleach Jonathan Tyner Wm Tyner Lenord Tyner Wm Steifel L. F. Kuck Meyer Helfer Charles Newton Charles Roach Wm H. Bleach Reuben Hagans James Caruthers R. H. Williams B. Hopkin

James Weeks E Martin J. Tompkins James Piles Henry Beal Mordicai Dawson
[Endorsed] Indians & Armed Occupation To be filed with petitions for modification of the “Armed Occupation Act”
</docbody>
<dochead>ADAM GORDON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:LS]</source>
<place-time>Collectors Office KEY WEST Jamy 6th 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HON GEO. M. BIBB Secy of the Treay SIR, I am informed by Capt. Nones of the U.S. Rev Cutter Lagare who went to the port of Havana to fill his boiler with fresh water, that the Fishing Smacks employed in this District when they enter the Port of Havana either take off or cover up the names of the Vessel on the Stern, and enter and leave the Port under Spanish colors—On enquiry of them the cause of this, he was told that it was to avoid tonnage tax—duties on fish &c—The fishing Smacks employed in this District I have not the least doubt are really American property. The impropriety of changing the character of these Vessels, in entering a foreign port is very manifest but the case does not seem to be provided for in the Revenue laws, and as far as I can discover, I am powerless in the matter, Hence I lay the whole before the Department for its instructions. The origin of the American fishing Smacks, being permitted to supply the Havana market with fish is traced to the time that Com. Porter in Command of the Mexican fleet occupied this harbor about the year 1826 & 7 His cruises aided by the Columbian Privateers so cut up & annoyed the Commerce of Cuba, that even the fishing Vessels could not venture out—Then it was that Licenses or permissions were issued to American vessels to Supply Havana with live fish—And Smacks owned wholly by Americans have been employed at the business ever since. The fishing on the Florida Coast is so much superior to that on the Cuba side, as to pay well those engaged in it—The Spanish permissions or licenses is not a Custom house document, but as I understand issues from the Farmer of the fishing business—for it is a Government Monopoly, farmed out in Havana. From 24 to $30.000 Dolls as near as we can calculate has been the Yearly value of the fishing business as heretofore carried on, between the Florida & Cuba which amount is brought into this port in Specie. I never before had any official information on this subject but have suspected that in connection with the farmer of the Spanish Monopoly, the fisherman evaded the Spanish regulations on the Cuba side. But they conform

to the laws & regulations in this District—Several Years since when Col. Pinkney was Coll" at this port, difficulties arose which were reported to the Department and the instructions then given by the Comptroller, have been since observed by them & by this office.
Very Respectfully Sir I am Your Ob" Servt A. GORDON Coll"
[Endorsed] Key West Jan, 6/45 A Gordon Coll" De Conduct of owners of Fishg Vessels &c See answer to Coll of Key West of 6"
Jany 1846" K 2 Jany 25/45 Rodman
</docbody>
<dochead>CHARLES B. PENROSE TO WALKER ANDERSON</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Opinions]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury. January 8, 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have recieved your letter of the 24" ult," and regret the untoward circumstances attending the Bills of Indictment against the persons complained of by Lt. Farrand for trespassing upon the timber lands of the United States. For the results, you are in no wise accountable. I concur with you in opinion that the terms of the act of 2d. March, 1831,” comprehend the cases of those who cut and remove pine timber, although the prime object was to protect Live Oak for the use of the Navy. If the Juries but do their duty the offenders will be made responsible for their unauthorized destruction of public property. If the depredations were committed more than two years since, so that the act of April 30, 1790," becomes a bar to an indictment, resort to the action of Trespass seems highly proper if it can be sustained. While there is a doubt on this point, as you suggest there is, it will not be expedient to multiply cases until it shall have been judicially determined." You ask my opinion upon the ground taken by the Defendants, –that the U.S. Courts in Florida have no right to entertain a Common Law action of Trespass, when the U. States is the party plaintiff. I regret that you did not furnish me with a brief of the argument in favor of this position, as it is always unsatisfactory if not unsafe for a Stranger to the local laws and practice of a State or Territory, to decide a mooted question in regard to such laws or practice, without the aid of those whose residence and pur-

suits presuppose a minute knowledge of both. I must content myself, under such circumstances, with the remark that, by the 1st. Section of the act of May 15th. 1826." (3d. Story's Laws U.S. 2023.) the Superior Courts of the Territory of Florida have original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction of all suits in which the U. States are a party, whatever may be the amount in controversy. Why they may not bring an action of Trespass, I do not understand. If I have overlooked any statutable provision conflicting irreconcileably with that just cited, I will thank you to refer me to it, and, at the Same time, furnish me with a brief of the arguments on both sides. Until the point is determined, (and by your letter it appears that the defendants intend to insist upon it,) I should not recommend the institution of other Suits, unless there occur some flagrant case of Trespass, which it may be important at once to Suppress. I shall submit the general subject to the consideration of the Secretary of the Navy, and advise you of the result.
It is certainly of importance that the cases should be brought in a county, where a Jury can be found not obnoxious to the same charge, and guilty of the offence upon which they are to pass, if it can be done; of that you are best able to judge. You will press for an early decision of the main question, and be cautious to preserve such evidence as may come to your knowledge, for the purpose of proceeding against those to whom it may apply. The idea that the U. States cannot maintain a Common Law action is more fanciful than sound, as I apprehend. The District Courts have a Common Law jurisdiction, and so, in my judgment have the Territorial Courts in Florida.
The latter, by the law of 1826, are vested with jurisdiction of all Suits in which the U.S. may be a party; and Suits embrace not only what the Common Law recognized among its old proceedings, but proceedings to ascertain legal rights, whether known or unknown to the old Common Law of England."
Very Respectfully Yours, CHS. B. PENROSE, Solicitor of the Treasury.
WALKER ANDERSON Esq. U. S. Attorney Pensacola, Florida.

</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Cong. ALS)</source>
<place-time>WASH. Jan 10. 1844 [1845]</place-time>
<docbody>SIR. Beneath is an extract of a proposition communicated to me in behalf Florentio T. Commyns of Pensacola which it appears to me will be very advantageous for the Gov". If you have not authority to make the arrangement, I would respectfully suggest whether it would not be proper for the Dep" to ask of Congress the necessary authority. The saving of rent annually would be very considerable to the Gov'—Several hundred dollars I believe are paid now each year for rent. The letter from which the extract is made is from the U.S. Dist. Atto. of the Dist. of W. Florida.
Respectfully Yr Ob" St D LEVY
HON GEO M. BIBB Secy of the Treas”
Extracts. “Mr Comyns authorizes me to say that he will build a Court House worth $1500 upon a plan approved by the Judge and officers of the Court for the lot No 113 at the corner of Palafox and Government Streets. He has a lot of his own opposite to this which makes it more desirable to him. There is a beautiful lot suitable for the Court House belonging to Gov" and fronting the Square.”
[Endorsed] Hon. D. Levy 11 Jan 1845 as to exchange of lot for a Court House. L. 7. Jan 13/45 Ela THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO CHARLES B. PENROSE
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., ND:LS]</source>
<place-time>NAVY DEPARTMENT January 13, 1845</place-time>
SIR, I have received your letter of 8* instant * with its enclosures.
The Department has acted on the belief that all trespasses on public lands in Florida, by the removal of timber, whether of Live oak, cedar, or pine, are forbidden by Law, and that it is the duty of the Department under the direction of the President, to cause the trespasses to be prevented, and those committing them to be proceeded against. This may be done by civil suit or indictment.
Your suggestion to the District Attorney for West Florida in your reply to his letter, copies of which were enclosed in your communication, not to multiply judicial proceedings until the question has been settled seems to me to be very judicious and should govern him in his action.
I am, respectfully Your obt. Servt.
J. Y. MASON
C.B. PENROSE Esq." Solicitor of the Treasury
* NA(TD, Sol. Treas. Lets., Debts and Suits, Bk. 23).

[Endorsed] Secretary of the Navy January 13" 1845. Trespasses upon timber lands of the U. S. in Florida. January 14" 1845 Sent a copy of this letter to M' Anderson. U. S. Atty. Pensacola Flo.”
</docbody>
<dochead>COMMISSION OF CHARLES S. SIBLEY AS UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (MIDDLE DISTRICT)</dochead>
<source>[NA:SD, Attorneys’ Perm. Comms., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>[January 15, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>JOHN TYLER, President of the United States of America, To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
Know Ye, That, reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability, and Learning of CHARLESS. SIBLEY, I have nominated, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” Do appoint him attorney of the United States, in and for the Middle District of Florida, and do authorize and empower him to execute and fulfil the duties of that Office according to Law; And to have and to hold the said Office, with all the powers, privileges, and emoluments to the same of right appertaining, unto him, the said CHARLESS. SIBLEY for the term of four years from the day of the date hereof unless the President of the United States for the time being, should be pleased sooner to revoke and determine this Commission.
In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be L.S. made Patent, and the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington, the fifteenth day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty five and of the Independence of the United States of America the sixty ninth.”
JOHN TYLER, By the President, J. C. CALHOUN, Secretary of State.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO JOHN W. DAVIS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Letters Sent, Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>GEN LAND OFFICE January 16, 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HON J. W. DAVIS Ch" of the Com: on Pub: lands H. R.
SIR. Your letter of 4" inst,” requests me to furnish a Bill cover-

ing my recommendation “respecting a provision for compensation to the land Officers in Florida under the Armed occupation law”—
The recommendation to which you have reference also alludes to the expediency of establishing by law a table of fees, “for all the local land Offices, to prevent the renewal of complaints by our Citizens having to pay charges unauthorized by law, sometimes reasonable enough in amount, but in others onerous and extortionate.”
The cases alluded to are not considered as coming strictly within the purview of the laws prescribing the duties of the Officers—being the transcribing of papers on the files of the Office, to be used in reference to suits at law, and other purposes, frequently comprising voluminous documents; also the copying of township maps and diagrams, and the transcribing of field or descriptive notes of surveys for the particular information & use of individuals, both purchasers and others.
Being satisfied that it would be of public utility to have such a table of fees, I have in the accompanying draft of a Bill,” presented in a separate section, a provision in reference to that object and which can readily be detached should you not concur therein.
In relation to the special compensation provided in the 1st Section for the Offices in Florida, I should explain, that it would give to each of them for each permit the sum of two dollars—I have framed the Section in this way in reference to the principle upon which the allowance is to be made, and desire to be understood as submitting entirely to you and the Committee the actual amount to be allowed.
I am very respectfully Sir, Your Obt Servt THO. H. BLAKE Commr SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Execs. of Terrs.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Secretary's Office TALLAHASSEE Jan'y 18" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, In compliance with the request of the Register of the Treasury Department, I transmitted to him, on the 13th Sept 1843,” the usual estimates of the Appropriation necessary to defray the expenses of the Legislative Council of this Territory, for the fiscal year, ending
30" June 1845. At that time, the number of representatives was 29, and had been for several years previous, and this was the number for whom pay & mileage was estimated by me, in the estimates above referred to.
In February 1843, the County of Hernando (now Benton) was organized by the Legislature, and in March 1844, the Counties of
26 Present.
* LC (Records States of U.S., Microfilm E.3, Fla.). See ante, p. 565, n.

St. Lucia and Marion. The representative from the former, was permitted to take his seat in the House, at the last Session, and those from the latter were allowed the same right at the present session.
The question, as to the right of the Legislature, to increase the number of representatives, beyond the number warranted by the provisions of the Act of Congress of June 18th 1834* (since which no other Act has been passed by Congress, apportioning representation in this Territory) was involved in the admission of the members from the three new Counties, above mentioned. The claims of the members elected from St. Lucia and Marion Counties, to seats in the House, were referred to a Committee, who have decided in favor of their right to admission, and their report has been concurred in by the House. I herewith enclose to you a printed copy of the proceedings of the House on the 14" inst, containing the report of the Committee, and the vote of the House thereon.”
Three additional representatives having thus been admitted into the House, since the estimates referred to, were submitted by me, the question arises whether the pay and milage of said additional members, can be paid out of the appropriation made by Congress, to meet the expenses of our Territorial government for the present fiscal year. If you should be of opinion, that the provisions of the Act of Congress, above referred to, have been violated by the Legislative Council, in increasing the number of representatives, will the Department consider this a Sufficient cause, to refuse the payment of the claims of the three new members, even if there should be enough left, of the present appropriation, to pay those claims? But, supposing the increase of representation does not conflict with the Acts of Congress, and the appropriation is only sufficient to cover the pay
& mileage of the usual number of the Council, and their officers (to wit, 15 Senator & 29 Representatives) I beg leave, respectfully, to ask you whether their claims, under the Act of Congress of 29 Aug" 1842,"
would not be entitled to payment, to the exclusion of those of the three additional members?
It has been usual for the Sec'y of the Territory, to give to each member and officer of the Legislative Council, at the close of the Session, a Certificate, under the Seal of the Territory, for the amount due him.
These certificates sanction the expenditures therein expressed, and are issued, it is presumed, under the forms of legal authority. The members & officers of the Council, therefore, find no difficulty in disposing of them to third persons, upon whom falls the loss, should their
284 STAT. 677.
29 Present.
* 5 STAT. 541, secs. 2, 3 and 4.

payment be refused at Washington. It seems clearly, therefore, to be my duty not to issue any certificate, which I have not every reason to believe, will be paid on presentation at the Treasury Department.
In asking your opinion, then, upon the queries above addressed to you, and instructions thereon for my guidance, I am influenced, solely, by a desire to do justice to all parties concerned—to the Government, to the three new members, and to those who may, by assignment, become the holders of their certificates, should they be issued by me.
An early reply is respectfully requested.
I am, very respectfully Your Obed" Serv"
THO: H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida HON: GEO. M BIBB Sec'y of the Treasury
[Endorsed] T H Duval Secretary of Florida 18 Jany 45 respecting pay of additional members ans" 29 Jany * Ela SECRETARY DUVAL TO DELEGATE LEVY
[FSL:Govr. Exec. Corres.: M 32]
TALLAHASSEE Jan'y 18" 1845
DEAR SIR, I sent you, a short time since, an Abstract shewing what the deficiency in the present appropriation would be, should the Council extend their Session to 75 days. Since then the House has decided that the two new Counties of St Lucie & Marion are entitled to representatives, and the members from those Counties have accordingly been allowed to take their seats. The number of the House has thus been increased by the addition of 3 new members, including the one from Benton Co, since the estimates for the fiscal year ending
30" June 1845, were forwarded to Washington by me on the 13"
Sept 1843.” My own opinion is that the Legislative Council has no right, under the Act of Congress of June 18" 1834 * to increase the number of representatives. Such seems to have been their own construction of the law until recently—For when the new Counties of Santa Rosa and Wakulla, and allowed each one representative; the representation of Leon and Escambia, out of which the former were carved, was proportionally reduced. But however this may be, I do not think the three new members can receive their pay and mileage out of the present appropriation. The ordinary and usual number of the

Council (to wit 15 Senators and 29 representatives) for whom, doubtless, the present appropriation was made by Congress, will exhaust the whole amount in a Session of about 48 or 50 days. Their right to receive and use it, as far as it will go, will be held, I presume, by the Department, as paramount to that of the new members.
I have, today, prepared and transmitted to the Register of the Treasury Dep’t, an additional estimate covering the amount of the pay and mileage of the 3 new members, for the present Session, which I have requested him to lay before the proper Committee in Congress.”
I hope Congress will allow an addition to the Appropriation sufficient to pay their claims.” If any thing can be done in the matter I know it will receive your attention &c Yr's very truly THO: H. DUVAL
HON: D. LEVY
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reserv. File, Box 8:LS]</source>
<place-time>FORT BROOKE, Fa. January 21" 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to submit for the consideration of the general in chief and Department of War, a proposition to reduce the limits of the land directed by the President to be reserved for military purposes around this Post, from Sixteen to four miles square.
The accompanying map shows the reservation,” as now established marked A B and that proposed marked in like manner d e. It is hardly probable any considerable portion of that proposed to be excluded, owing to its general sterility, will be for many years occupied, except, on the Hillsboro river, outside the new line, for the purpose of a County site when it is desirable to the convenience of the people that a Court House &c be located. In that immediate neighborhood, Commissioners duly appointed, have selected a quarter section, for which it is understood application will be made to Congress: this selection reaches on its Southern face to within the Garrison grounds and if permitted will inevitably be productive of collisions and mutual inconvenience—the reduced reservation will, it is believed, equally serve the purpose and promote the convenience of the citizens.
Several enterprising settlers having established themselves within the present limits, under the armed occupation (or donation act) in good faith and in ignorance of the intrusion, it is hoped by the proposed arrangement may be enabled to perfect their titles under the permits
* Present. Cf. Supra.
* Cf. post, p. 1005.
* Not present.

granted at the land offices: while this modification will gratify the citizens it can operate no material inconvenience or disadvantage to the public service, except in the supply of fuel, and this exception is merely contingent, so it is quite unlikely that any but a very trifling garrison will be retained here after a few years, meanwhile, the improbability of extensive settlements hereabouts will admit of any needful supply from unlocated lands, as at present, by the labor of the troops.
Should the government assent to this proposition the convenience of the community will be promoted by an early decision.
I am Very respectfully Yr Obt Serv"
W. J WORTH Brig. Gen Comg To/THE ADJ" GENERAL U.S. Army H* Q” Washg"
[Endorsed] Fort Brooke, Fa. January 21” 1845. W. J. Worth.
Brig Genl Commanding. Submitting a proposition to reduce the limits of the land directed by the President to be reserved for Military purposes around this Post (Fort Brooke) from 16 to 4 miles square: with a sketch of the Reserve. Feby: 18, 1845 For the reasons given within, I recommend that the military Reserve around Fort Brooke, Tampa Bay, be reduced to four miles square from sixteen. Respectfully recommended to the Sec. of War, whose approval is asked. Winfield Scott. Feb. 18/45. Approved W"
Wilkins, Sec War War Dept Feb 18.45 Ans" Feby 19. 1845.”
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. from U.S. Attys., Clks., and Marshals (Fla.):ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST AUGUSTINE Jan 27th 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I herewith enclose you my report of land cases for the last Nov. term of our Court” which has been hitherto delayed by circumstances beyond my controul. Everything has been done in them I
believe which could thus far be accomplished: in most of those remanded by the Supreme Court for further proceedings surveys are necessary & have been ordered & as all the private grants in East Florida are now in the course of being surveyed under an appropriation made at the last session of Congress: a survey of each of the tracts embraced in the pending cases will I trust soon be made.—By the bye Mr Levy our Delegate has forwarded to me a note from the Secretary of the Treasury to him under date of the 6" Inst. in which he says, that “a letter was written on the 30" Ultimo to the Committee of ways & means" requesting that provision might be made
* Not found. Cf. post, p. 1015.
* Not present. 40 Neither letter found. 

by law for the payment of the services heretofore rendered in these cases; feeling a deep interest in procuring an appropriation for that object may I invoke your aid in effecting it?
With great respect I am Sir yours, &c THO DOUGLAS U.S. Atty &c C. B. PENROSE Esquire Solr U.S. Treasury City of Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Letter St. Augustine Jan. 27, '45 Tho" Douglass U.S. Atty. Encloses report of land cases for Nov. T. 1844 Ack" Feb.
5. 1845." Docketed WILLIAM H. WARE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Collectors Office Dist & Port of ST MARKS January 27" 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Immediately on receiving your letter of the 13" of November,”
enclosing a resolution of the Senate, asking for information relative to the propriety of making Cedar Key a port of entry," I transmitted copy's of it, as well as the resolution to Augustus Steele, Inspector at Cedar Key, and Jn" M. Palmer Deputy Collector at Tampa Bay—
Enclosed you will please find copy's of the returns made by M"
Steele from the Books of his office, and also a Statement of the Shipping and trade of this port for the last twelve Months I have been unable as yet to get M Palmer's returns from Tampa Bay, but expect them daily, as soon as they arrive I will forward them.*
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Your Most Obt Srvt
- Wm H. WARE Collector HON GEORGE M BIBB Scty of the Treasury Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Letter accompaning Statement of Exports & Imports Dist St Mark W* H Ware Collector GR These papers rec" after a report made to the Senate S. 73. Feby 10/45 Rodman *
41 Not found.
** Not found.
* Senate Journal, 28 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 236, 241. “Post p. 1007.
* Gilbert Rodman.

Abstract of Vessels Entered at the Port of Cedar Key
[Enclosure]
Copy of [No date, 1844]
Abstract of Vessels entered at the Port of Cedar Key Dist of St Mark from October 1st 1842 to Nov 30th 1844
Tons Date of Entry Pe'" Of Name of Wessel Masters Name Where From Lading eSSe
0/95
1842 Oct 24th Brig Billow D P Berry Key West Q* M: Stores 173 57
“ NOV 21 Brig Amanda W J Johnson New Orleans 44 st 196
“ Dec 8 Brig J D Noyes New York Sutlers Stores 186 21
1843 Jan 26th Sloop Belle * O Gavit Apalachicola Salt &c 41 63
“ Feb 11 Schooner Only Daughter T M V Cole Key West Merchandise 24 54
“ May 30 Schooner Ellen Geo Bethel - Pensacola Ballast 54 36
“ June 11 Sloop Alert Geo E Hobbin Key West Salt 30 29
“ July 30 Sloop Eilino John Martin New Orleans Merchandise 6 42
“ Oct 27 Schooner Pompino John Dyer New York 44 st 87 27
“ Dec 3 Sloop Orange Branch Peleg Saunders New Orleans 4.6 t ( 22 15
44 “ 12 Sloop New York Geo Bethel Key West & 4 st 70 47 4.4 “ 18 Brig N G. Bourne H Perry New York * 4 st 129 87
1844 Jan 24 Brig Magnolia John Smith Key West 44 st 139 70
“ Feb 16 Schooner Saganond Asa Wright Charleston Ballast 94 76
“ March 4 Schooner Valiant Z Farrow Charleston 44 g : 70 85
st “ 7 Brig Saint Mark John Williams New York Merchandise 192 17
& s “ 9 Brig N. G. Bourne H Perry New York 44 st 129 87
44 “ 12 Sloop Julia Ann Wm Nelson St Mark 44 st 12 18 

“ “ 16 Schooner
* * “ 19 Schooner
* * “ 25 Schooner
* * “ 28 Schooner “ April 5 Schooner 44 “ 8 Schooner
*4 “ 13 Brig
* * “ 14 Schooner
** “21 Schooner “ May 25 Schooner “ July 8 Schooner 4 * “26 Schooner “ Oct 15 Schooner 44 “ 26 Schooner “ NOV 18 Schooner “ Dec 4 Schooner Saganond Gold Huntress Echo Mary Clare Washington J M Watbury Magnolia Mary Mary Clare Mary Hammond Piquot Sinas Staunch Eloina Helen Magnet (Signed) Augustus Steele Inspector Asa Wright A Berry Hastings D B Ewell W L Watson John Thompson John West W H Talbott D W Ewell R Norwood D Lewis Stetson J Spillings Roberts T B Sears T F Burgess Charleston Mobile St Mark Tampa Mobile Mobile New York N Orleans New Orleans Key West Mobile New Orleans New York New York New York Charleston Salt Merchandise
4 & 44
4 & 4 &
* 4 * * 44 * * Tonage of Magnet Deduct 94 76 52 65 99 45 50 20
56 60
76 32
135
73 22
50 20
111 57
59 T4
55 54
90 70
82 64
73 61
80 39 2905 16
80 39 2824 77/95

Copy of
[Enclosure]
Abstract of Vessels Cleared at the Port of Cedar Key
[No date 1844]
Abstract of Vessels, Cleared at the Port of Cedar Key Distr of St Mark, from October 1*1842 to Nov 30th 1844
Tons Dates of Description Bales of || Burthen Clearance of Vessel Name of Wessel Masters Name Where bound Lading Cotton Tons 95
1842 Oct 20 || Schooner Dream Smith New Orleans Ballast 33 || 82
Nov 21 || Brig Amanda Wm S Lemon New Orleans 4 & 4 - 196 02
1843 May 30 || Schooner Ellen ||---------------- Charleston 4 & 4 & 54 36
June 30 || Schooner Mary Hammond || W Williams New York Cotton 330 111 || 51
July 27 || Sloop Alert G W Hobbins Key West Ballast ||-------- 30 | 29
Oct 31 || Schooner Pompino J D Dyer Mobile 4 & 4 & 87 | 27
1844 Jany 6 || Brig N G. Bourne H Perry New York Sundries C&H 375 129 | 88
Feb 21 || Schooner Saganond Asa Wright Charleston Cotton 254 94 | 76
4 * 21 || Sloop Belle O Gavit New Orleans 4 & 4 a. 59 41 | 63 March 16 || Schooner Valiant T Farrand Charleston 4 & 4 s 182 70 85
** 19 || Brig N G. Bourne H Perry New York Cotton & Hides 348 129 87 44 20 || Brig . St Mark John Williams New York Sundries 469 192 || 17 & d 28 || Schooner Echo John Hastings New Orleans Ballast ||-------- 99 || 45 44 29 || Schooner Mary Clare D. W. Ewell New Orleans Hides ||-------- 50 20 

April 4
* * 15
* * 15 & 4 20
* * 19
* * 22
* - 25 June 28 July 12 31 Oct 11 NOV 21 Tonage Cotton Hides D Skins Tallow &c Schooner Schooner Brig Sloop Schooner Schooner Schooner Schooner Schooner Schooner Schooner Schooner Recapitulation 2089 03/95
2399
Sagnond J M Waterbury Magnolia Julia Ann Mary Clare E Caroline Mary Hammond George Pequot Synas Staunch Helen Tons Bales
1 Barrel Asa Wright Jno Thomson Jno West Nelson J W. Ewell J Wilson Norwood H H Harthorn D Lewis G. Stitson J Spillings Thos B Sears Charleston N York Appalachicola Tampa Tampa St Mark Mobile Tampa Key West Appalachicola Key West New Orleans Cotton Ballast
** * * Cotton Ballast st * * Cotton & 39 Cattle 229 94 | 76 - - - - - - - - 76 32 - - - - - - - - 135 - - - - - - - - 12 18
- - - - - - - - 50 | 20
48
- - - - - - - - 111 57 - - - - - - - - 72 25
- - - - - - - - 59 || 75
- - - - - - - - 55 54
- - - - - - - - 90 | 70
105 80 || 39 2399 || 2089 || 03
(Signed) AUGUSTUS STEELE Inspector

</docbody>
<dochead>PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 2 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>(Copy) [January 30, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>Preamble and Resolutions Whereas, by an Act of Congress, passed on the 7" day of July 1838,”
appropriationg Ten thousand Dollars to repair the road from Jacksonville in East Florida, to the Mineral Springs in said Territory, the direct mail route to Tallahassee; But in Consequence of the Indian War, the said sum was not applied on said road as was intended, and by operation of law the said sum has reverted back to the Treasury of the United States.—
Therefore, Be it resolved, by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, that the attention of our Delegate in Congress be called to the Preamble and Resolution of the Legislative Council, approved on the 24" day of February 1843," and also a Preamble and Resolution, approved on the 9" day of March 1844,"
relative to this subject, and that he do urge the re-appropriation of the aforesaid sum of Ten thousand Dollars, to repair the road aforesaid:—
And, be it further resolved, that as soon as this Preamble and Ressolution pass the House of Representatives and approved by the Governor, that a copy of the same, duly authenticated, be sent to our Delegate in Congress.
Approved January 30" 1845
JNO. BRANCH Gov. of Florida Office of the Secretary I, Thomas H. DuVal, Secretary of the Territory of Florida, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a Preamble and Resolutions passed by the Legislative Council of said Territory, and approved by the Governor, at its present session, the original thereof being now on file in my office.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and SEAL affiixed the seal of said Territory at the Capital in the City of Tallahassee this 14" day of February A. D. Eighteen Hundred and forty five.
THO: H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida
[Endorsed] Florida Resolutions of the Legislature praying For an appropriation to repair road from Jacksonville in East Florida to the Mineral Springs in said Territory 1845 Feby. 26. Refd to Com. on Roads & Canals.” Roads & Canals Mr Levy.
45 5 STAT. 261.
"Fla. Terr., Acts, 21 Sess., 1843, p. 69.
* Ibid., 22 Sess., 1844, p. 81.
* House Journal, 28 Cong., 2 sess., 484. No further action noted.

</docbody>
<dochead>RESOLUTION OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, HR 28 A-F 231: C.]</source>
<place-time>(Copy) [January 31, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>Resolution Resolved, By the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That our Delegate in Congress be, and he is hereby requested to obtain an appropriation of Ten thousand Dollars, in addition to the sum already appropriated for the payment of the expenses of the Legislative Council; the amount of the appropriation made by last Congress, being inadequate for the purpose.”
WILLIAM A. FORWARD Speaker House Representatives GEO: W. MACRAE President of the Senate Adopted January 31* 1845
H. ARCHER Secretary House of Representatives Adopted January 31* 1845
THO" F. KING Secretary of the Senate Approved February 11” 1845
JNO: BRANCH
Office of the Secretary I, Thomas H. DuVal, Secretary of the Territory of Florida, do hereby certify that the above is a true and correct copy of a Resolution passed by the Legislative Council of Florida, and approved this day by the Governor—the same being now on file in my office.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the Seal of Said Territory at the Capitol in the City of Tallahassee this eleventh day of February A.D. Eighteen Hundred & forty five.
[L.S.] THO: H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida
[Endorsed] Florida Legislature of For appropriation to pay expenses thereof—1845—Feby 21. Refd to Com on Territories." Territories M Levy.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Feby. 1" 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GEN. W. J. WORTH Com. 9" Dept. St. Augustine, Flo.—
SIR; The following endorsement of the General-in-Chief upon a letter of the Post Master General requesting the discontinuance of
* See post, p. 1026.
* House Journal, 28 Cong., 2 sess., p. 433. The sum of $20,679.33 was appropriated for expenses of the Legislative Council (5 STAT. 760).

the express mail between Pilatka and Fort Brooke, is communicated for your information and government.
“The express mail between St. Augustine and Tampa Bay, gives me so much trouble with the Post Office Department—being against the letter of the law and deemed no longer absolutely necessary—
as a regular establishment—the Adjutant General will desire General Worth to discontinue it, and only send express mails as special exigencies may require.”"
I am Sir, &c.
L. THOMAS. A.A. Gen.'
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reserv. File, Box 50:C]</source>
Copy H* Q” 9th Dept. S*AUGUSTINE Feby: 9. '45
GENERAL, The establishment of a civil mail across the Peninsula, from Palatka to Tampa, has enable me to withdraw the military express heretofore indispensable—The necessity, in any contingency, has ceased for the further occupation of Fort King, as a military station—the detach" at that point has been accordingly withdrawn except an individual to hold possession in behalf of the United States until disposition shall be made, by proper authority, of the public buildings.
I respectfully Suggest that the buildings temporarily assigned for the use of the Federal Courts, be turned over to the Marshal without condition or Consideration and that the remainder be Sold, after due notice, to the highest bidder—It is not probably the whole, will bring an amount equal to the expense & fees of Sale—Originally of slight construction & unseasoned materials they are in ruinous condition &
rapid decay and yet will answer a momentary purpose for use of the courts and afford comfort & encouragement to new settlers—
Should these suggestions be approved, it may be well to advise the land officer in order that the lands appurtenant, may be included in proximate Surveys, now being made, and opened for private entry or public Sale.
I am General With high respect yr Obt Sev"
W. J. WORTH Brg Gen' &c TO, MAJOR GENERAL JESUP, Q Mr Genl H" Q” Washington
[Endorsed] 237. Brigr. Genl. W. J. Worth, St: Augustine, Feby 9.
1845 Respectfully submitted to the Secy of War; and I recommend that the course advised by General Worth be adopted. Th: S. Jesup Q. M. Genl Let this matter be submitted to the Commanding General of the Army—His approval will be conclusive. W* Wilkins

I concur in the views of Genl: Worth & recommend the sale of the public buildings Winfield Scott Feb. 21/45 Respectfully referred to the Com" of the General Land Office for such action as may in his discretion be proper under the laws—the place is no longer necessary for any military purposes, & instructions have been given to abandon it. Th. S. Jesup Q. M. Genl Feb. 24.1845. Rec" Feby 18 1845.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO GOVERNOR BRANCH</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. Sent, Bk. 10]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 11" Feby. 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>HON. JOHN BRANCH, Govt of Flor., Tallahassee SIR, Your letter of the 30" ult, addressed to the First Auditor of the Treasury,” having been referred for my attention, I have, in reference to that part of it which alludes to an appropriation for the contingent expenses of the Territory of Florida, the honor to remark that a remittance of $175 has this day been directed to be made to you, being the balance, at this time, to the credit of the appropriation made by Congress for that object by the Act of June 17" 1844,”
which amount will be transmitted to you at Tallahassee, Territory of Florida, by the Treasurer of the United States as soon as the Warrant passes the usual forms of business.”
I am &c.
GEO. M. BIBB, Sey. of the Treasury.
</docbody>
<dochead>WILLIAM H. WARE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, Lets. from Collectors:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Collectors Office Dist & Port ST MARKS Feby 13" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Enclosed I have the honor of transmitting Returns from the Office at Tampa Bay, shewing the commerce of that port—These returns were not received until yesterday, therefore I was unable to send them sooner With great respect Your Obt Srvt Wm H WARE COll TO THE HON GEO. M. BIBB Scty Treasury Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Letter St Marks 13th Feby 1845 W. H. Ware Collector GR S. 96. Feby 2445 Rodman
* Not found.
* 5 STAT. 689. "Cf. post, p. 1083.

[Enclosure:AD]
Account of Vessels Entered at the Port of Tampa Bay, District of St Marks Florida Account of Vessels Entered at the Port of Tampa Bay
[No date, 1845]
N0 of Denomi- Name of Name of Mani- |Date of Entry | nation of Vessel Master Where from Tonage Cargo *
fest Wessel
1841
66 | November 5 | Ship Pennsylvania J Gross New York 677 25 | Asstd Mdse U.S Recruits
67 did 6 Schooner Litchfield J Howland New Orleans 65 56 | Provisions for the U S Troops
68 “ 15 do Cornelian J Smith New York 99 || 75 | Asstd Mdse to Sutler
69 “ 17 do Llewellin R J Rogers New London 55 | 67 | Irish Potatoes
70 “ 19 | Ship General D. Boyd Alexandria 677 45 || Forage for the Govt 10 Boxes Washington Smith Mdse
71 “ 20 Schooner Urchin S B Babcock | N. Kingston 115 27 | Produce
72 “ 22 | Ship Ebro E Perry Philadelphia 349 62 | Forage for the Govt
73 d6 “| Brig Ajax J D Brown New Orleans 147 77 | Provisions for the Troops, 125 Barrels Groceries for the Sutler
74 || December 1 do Samson A Sawyer do 148 94 s & ** s 4
75 4s 9 | Sloop Star S B Denison | Key West 42 21 | Fruit, Coffee, Segars and Salt
76 “ 11 Schooner Richmond W H Sitton St Augustine 99 || 89 | 40 Barrels Irish Potatoes
77 “ 13 do Mount Moriah W Peachy New Orleans 138 87 | Asstd Mdse to Sutler
78 & 6 st do Cornelian P Mayo New York 75 Produce
79 “ 21 | Sloop Vandalia S. B. Ashby Key West 40 || 42 | Fruit
80 “ “ Schooner Litchfield J B Flanders | New Orleans 65 56 | Provisions for the Troops 

23
24
25 1842
January May June
44
August October NOV
11
24
26
4
7
11
19
28
7
12
21
8
13
28
22
4
19
5 Brig Ship Sloop Brig Schooner Brig do Ship Schooner do do Brig do Schooner Brig Sloop do Schooner Sloop Schooner do do Schooner do do Saratoga Louisa Star J H Cheney Rosalthe Saldana Laurence Copeland Rosalind Dream Robert Center Pocomoke Lawrince Freeman Dream Good Hope Tiger Motto Dream F A Brown Aligator Dream Aligator Mary Washington Henry Clay Helen J B Bedell W Snow S B Denison A. Bragdon T S Baker J S Stubbs W S Baker E Pike E A Smith Jo" Shepherd J L Shreves C R Griffith J G Stover E A Smith D Sullivan A Castillo C P Mason E A Smith E. Harris Riley Lewis E A Smith Thomas Lewis Thos Green F Z Tucker O Webber New York Boston Key West New York New Port Baltimore New York Philadelphia New Orleans do Key West Charleston Key West New Orleans Key West New Orleans Key West New Orleans Key West Pensacola New Orleans Pearlington Mi Key West New York New Orleans
 Forage for the Gov.
Fruit, 200 Bus Salt Forage for the Govt Produce Grain for the Govt Forage for the Govt
44 44 ** ** Mdse to Sutler
149 Tierces Clothing for the Govt Fruit
20 Bbls flour 100 Bus Potatoes Ice, Herrings, Brick & Hay Asstd Mdse to Sutlers
15 M feet of Lumber Asstd Mdse Fruit
150 Pkgs Mdse Fruit Potatoes and Lumber
55 Pkgs Mds, 4 hhds Coal Vinegar, wine, paint, Raisons, & Herrings Asstd Mdse Govt Stores Sundry Mdse

No Of Denomi- Name of Name of Manifest Date of Entry ": f Wessel Master Where from Tonage Cargo eSSe
1842
26 November 6 | Schooner | Cherokee B.B. Usher Key West 64 || 25 | Onions and Potatoes
27 & 4 12 | Sloop Reform J Paine New Orleans 51 || 02 | Asstd Mdse to Sutler
28 did “ Schooner | Drusilla N M Lamson | Key West 99 || 72 “ “ to order
29 44 16 Sloop New York E A Smith do 70 47 | Salt, Flour, and 10 Bundles Mdse
30 44 21 do Belle O Gavitt Port Leon 41 63 243 Pkgs Mdse
31 66 22 || Schooner | Elizabeth J Wilson Apalachicola 37 || 53 | Asst Mdse to Sutlers Caroline
32 64 30 | Brig Saratoga J B Bedell Savannah 231 || 65 | Hay, Oats and Corn for the Govt
33 December 4 | Sloop Rival H. Cold Key West 20 75 | Fruit, Segars and Pickles
34 44 7 | Schooner | Adrian J. Pitts Savannah 149 91 Sundry for the Army
35 44 13 do Helen SW Shirley New Orleans 45 || 32 Mdse for Sutler
36 & 4 26 Sloop Belle O Gavitt Port Leon 41 || 63 4 44 44 1843
1 January 3 | Sloop Rival H Cold Key West 20 75 | Sundry Mdse
2 44 23 Schooner | Mary J. Paine do 69 87 | Coffee, Segars, Salt, Claret and Washington Lumber
3 April 1 Brig South L Lambard Boston 197 || 74 25 Tons Ice
4 44 3 | Sloop Rival J Sitcher Key West 20 75 | Flour, Sugar, Rice, Porter, Cider, Segars
5 st 13 Schooner | Only J Wilson do 24 || 54 | Fruit Daughter
6 May 14 do Pacific B Smith Baltimore 96 | 84 || Hay and Oats for the Govt
7 did 19 | Brig Georgiana J. MCLellan New York 249 || 37 44 4s 4 g is a 4 4 & 4
8 44 did do J Cohen Jr. Moore do 149 || 72 | Mdse asstd 

É
10
11
12
13
14
15
16 :|
10
11 July September d4
October November December
1844
January
46
February March July August st Oct
13
12
20
25
12
18
30
13
4 4
12
14 Schooner Bark Schooner do do do Brig Schooner Sloop do Schooner do do Sloop Schooner do do Bark Schooner Mary Washington Marine George Mary Washington Seminole G.W.A. Tate Clarion G.W.A. Tate Belle Julia Ann Mary Clare do George Julia Ann Mary Washington Rosella Magnet Mary Mary Washington W H Shaw M. B.
Vernard H H Harthorn U H Shaw E. Taylor R R Lewis T H Leland R. R. Lewis O Gavitt H Curtis D. W. Ewell do H H Harthorn W Nelson J Paine C Loring Ja” O’Shaunessy Thomas Marston J Paine Pensacola Baltimore Pensacola New Orleans Boston New Orleans New York New Orleans Port Leon New Orleans do do Mobile New Orleans do Key West do Baltimore New Orleans
69
213
72
69
95
211
21
32
110
244
69
87
22
29
87
76
23
71
63
18
20
20
29
18
87
39
08
12
87 Sundry Mdse to Sutlers Ship"
from New Orleans Hay and Grain for the Gov"
21 M feet, 60' Shingles, 2 Brick Provisions for the Govt Asstd Mdse Asst. Cargo to Sutler Hay, Corn, and Oats for the GOVt Mdse to Sutler, 48 Barrels Pork to U.S.Q. Master Groceries to Sutler Groceries Mdse to Sutler
20 Sacks Salt Asstd Mdse to Indian Trader “ “ “ Sutler Ballast
4200 Bus Salt Forage for the Govt Asstd Mdse to Sundry

</docbody>
<dochead>PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 2 sess.:C]</source>
<place-time>[February 15, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>Whereas by reference to the various Maps of Florida it is found that the waters of Indian River and of the River St Johns are laid down as approaching very near to each other, And Whereas this information is confirmed by the opinion of those who have travelled in and are acquainted with that Section of Country, -And whereas it is for these reasons confidently believed that a Canal Six or seven miles in length might be made to connect the navigable waters of the two said Rivers—And whereas the opening of such a Canal would be of great importance to that section of Country through which those two Rivers flow in as much as it would open an inland communication with a vast extent of Country in Florida and the Cities of Savannah and Charleston which it does not now possess, and would have a tendency to increase very rapidly the population of the Southern part of Florida and consequently add vastly to its importance and prosperity, increasing at the same time the value of all the lands in that Section of country—
Therefore be it resolved by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida that our Delegate in Congress be and he is hereby requested to use his best efforts to obtain an appropriation from Congress for a Survey of that portion of country lying between the head waters of Indian River and the River St Johns with a view to the opening of a canal to connect the two Rivers—
Be it further Resolved that our Said Delegate be requested to urge the appropriation by Congress of a Sum sufficient to defray the expenses of a Survey between the head of Indian River and Cape Florida with a view to the ultimate connexion of Said Water courses by Canals for the purpose of forming an Inland water communication to Cape Florida—
And be it further Resolved that as soon as this Preamble and Resolutions shall have passed both houses and been approved by the Governor a copy thereof duly authenticated by the proper officer be forwarded to our Delegate in Congress.—
I certify the foregoing to be a true Copy of the Original Preamble and Resolutions Adopted by the Legislative Council of Florida and approved by the Governor H. ARCHER Secretary of the H* Rep TALLAHASSEE Fl" 15 February 1845.

[Endorsed] Florida Legislative Resolution For Appropriation for Canal to connect the Indian & St. Johns Rivers 1845. Feby. 26. Refd to Com on Roads & Canals Roads & Canals" M* Levy.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE Com. to SW and Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON February 18" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HON W* WILKINS Secretary of War SIR, I have the honor to state that I have this day received a Second partial Report from the Board of Engineers sent to examine the Florida Reef and the dry Tortugas with reference to a system of defence.”
They have given this latter group a careful inspection and report in favor of an immediate commencement of operations at one of the Keys which they designate as the most important both for defence and as a depot of Stores. The tenor of their Report, in full corroberation of the Statements and opinions of the officer who preceded them, and in coincidence with my own opinions derived from a study of the best surveys extant, leaves no doubt in my mind of the propriety of beginning at the position indicated, as soon as Congress shall supply the means. The Simplicity of the site, and the ease with which the indispensable conditions can be fulfilled, will permit the plans for the fortification to be completed before they can in any event be needed so that we may confidently assert that no other delays will attend the commencement of them, than such as are involved in the remoteness and isolation of the situation.
Should Congress deem the political condition of the Country to demand a more vigorous prosecution of the florida reef defences than, in the imperfect state of our knowledge, we could before venture upon, I have, therefore to propose an additional grant of $150,000
for the fiscal year beginning July 1" 1845—to be applied to that object.”
Very &c Jos G TOTTEN Col & Ch Eng
* House Journal, 28 Cong., 2 sess., p. 484.
* See the Chief Engineer to the Secretary of War, Feb. 11, 1845 (H. Exec. Doc. 118, 28 Cong., 2 sess.), containing a preliminary report of the work of the engineers, re the Florida reef.
* In the appropriation act approved Mar. 3, 1845 (5 STAT. 745), an item of $30,000 was entered for fortifications on the Florida reef. But the sum of $200,- 000 was appropriated in an act approved May 15, 1846 (9 STAT. 12). See post, pp. 1016, 1017. 

</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE Com. to SW & Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON Feby 181845</place-time>
<docbody>THE HONORABLE W" WILKINS Secretary of War SIR/ It is desirable that measures be immediately taken to Secure to the United States the title to the Site of the projected fort at Key West, in order that no delay may occur in the application of the funds now available for that purpose, after the exact position of the fort shall have been fixed and the plans matured.—The Board of Engineers now engaged on that duty, have not made their final report, but sufficient information has been received to determine the fact that the S. West Point of the Island must be occupied.—I have therefore to request that the President of the U. States may be desired to give the necessary instructions to the Secretary of the Treasury, to cause to be reserved, for Military purposes, so much of the S. Western portion of the Island and Shoals of Key West, as lie South of the limits of the old “Town plat,” and West of a South Eastwardly line, from the said limits of the town to the South Shore of the Island, half a mile distant from the Light-house and parallel to the West Shore.
The proposed reservation, therefore, will be bound, on the North, by the limits of the old “Town plat” of Key West; on the West &
South, by the waters of the Gulf of Mexico; and on the East, by a line commencing at a point on the South Shore, half a mile distant from the Light-house, and running parallel to the general direction of the West Shore of the Island to the limits of the said Town plat.
I enclose a Sketch of the West end of the island of Key West, with the proposed reservation of the Island and Shoals marked thereon."—
The Surveys of the Gen'l Government have not yet reached this island, and existing claims to a certain quantity of land which have been confirmed by the Acts of Congress of the 24" of May 1828"
and 26* May 1830," have not yet been located.—It is not therefore known whether all the land embraced in the proposed military reservation belongs to the United States, but it is desirable to reserve the whole, or as much of it as possible; and that the location of the claims above recited should be made east of the reservation now asked.-
The Department is not able to indicate the course to be pursued to Secure, within the Shortest time, possession of the land to the United States,—if it be still possible to do so—but does not doubt that, in
* Not present. 004 STAT. 284–286. 614 STAT. 405-406 

knowledge of the great importance of the operations contemplated, the best and most expeditious course will be pursued.—
In connexion with this Subject, I must draw your attention to the Joint Resolution of Congress of Sept. 11" 1841,” forbidding the expenditure of money upon sites until the title be secured to the United States.—Should the sites above mentioned not be upon public land, the Suspension of that Resolution as regards that position (and the Tortugas Keys also, if they are covered by private claims) would Seem to be indispensable to an early commencement of fortifications on the Florida Reef.”—
</docbody>
<dochead>I have the honor to be &c JOS: G. TOTTEN Col &c THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Misc. Lets. Recd.:LS]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, February 19, 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The military reservation around Fort Brooke, Tampa Bay, Florida, having been reduced from 16 miles, to four miles, square, I
respectfully enclose herewith, for the files of your office, Brigadier General Worth's Communication of January 21st," with a map, recommending the measure, upon which will be found the official action of the Secretary of War.
Please inform me whether the Surveyor General of Florida will be directed to have the lines of the reduced reservation run off and marked, as in such event it may be unnecessary for the Commanding General in Florida to have it done.”
I am, Sir, very respectfully, Your obedient Servant, L: THOMAS Act. Adj Genl TO, THOMAS H. BLAKE, Esq., Comm. Gen. Land Office, Washington, D.C.
[Endorsed] War Dept. Adjutant's Genl’s Office February 19" 1845
L Thomas Acting Adjt. General states that the Military reserve around Fort Brooke having been reduced from 16 miles to 4 miles square, Sends Genl Worths communication of 21" January with a Map, recommending the measure, upon which will be found the official action of the Secretary of War, wishes to know if the S Genl will
* Sept. 10, 1841, House Journal, 27 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 452,466,497.
* See post, p. 1017. "Ante, p. 997.
*See post, p. 1073.

be directed to have the lines of the Reduced reservation run off and marked—&c. R. Refd. to Principal Clerk of Surveys & to go on general file. Wilson Feby 21/45 Rec"8 Aug 1845J W* Rec" for Regist July 30/46
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ACTING ADJUTANT GENERAL TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, Feby. 19* 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>HON: D. LEVY House of Reps. Washington.
SIR; By direction of the Secretary of War I respectfully enclose herewith a copy of a report from General Worth of the 7" inst.”
respecting your application for the repair, by the troops, of the bridge across the Withlacoochee river."
I take occasion to say that on the recommendation of Brigr.
Gen' Worth, and Major General Scott, the Secretary of War has reduced the military reservation around Ft. Brooke, Tampa Bay, from 16 to 4 miles square.
I am sir, &c.
L. THOMAS, A. A. General.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Abandoned Mil. Reserv. File, Box 16:LS]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON 24 Feb 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HONB1° Wm. WILKINS Secr Of War SIR Gen authority has been given to the Surveyor Gen & Receivers of public money in Florida, for the reservation for military purposes, of all island or keys on the Gulf Side of the Florida Coast.
In case this general authority Should not be considered to embrace the Dry Tortugas, which Situated at the extremity of the Florida reef, are far removed from the Coast & advanced well in the Gulf;
I have respectfully to request that application be made to the Sec'
of the Treasury, that the order of the President be obtained, for the reservation for military purposes, of all the islands or keys Composing the group, called the Dry Tortugas"
Very resp your Obt Servt JOS. GTOTTEN Col & Chf Eng
* John Williamson, recorder, GLO.
* NA (WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W 56), to the effect that a report was not deemed necessary on the repair of the bridge in question.
* Levy to the Secretary of War, Jan. 11, 1845 (loc. cit., L 3).
* See post, p. 1024.

[Endorsed] Engineer Dept: Feby 24 1845 Chief Engineer to Secretary of War Suggests that the Secy of the Treasy be asked to obtain an order from the President to reserve, for Military purposes, the grant of islands on the Florida coast known as the Dry Tortugas.—Et 4 Rec Feb 24/45 Respectfully referred to the Secy.
of the Treasury with the request that all the islands, or keys composing the Dry Tortugas may be reserved for military purposes. W"
Wilkins Sec of War War Department, Feb. 24. 1845. Respectfully referred to the Commissioner of the Gen’l Land Office for report as to the title of the U.S. those Islands. T. Dept Feby 25/45. See letter to Secy Treas, 25 Aug 1845. John Wilson W. 46. Feby 25/45
</docbody>
<dochead>Comm G. L. Off ROBERT E. LEE TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Aband. Mil. Res. File, Box 16:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Engineer Department WASHINGTON 24 Feb 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HONB" THOS: H. BLAKE Comm Gen Land Office Washington City SIR I have had the honor to receive the Copy of your letter of the 2"Aug 1843 * to the Register of the land office at St Augustine, & a Copy of your letter of 22 July 1844 " to the Receiver of the public monies at Newmansville E. F. relative to the Reservation of the Keys for Military purposes, on the gulf side of the Florida Coast.
In case the general authority there given should not be Considered to include the Dry Tortugas, which are at the termination of the Florida Reef & far removed in the Gulf Application will be made to the President of the U.S. for special directions for their reservation Very resp' your Obt Sert By order, R. E. LEE Capt & Ass" to Ch Engr
[Endorsed] Engineer Department 24" February 1845 R. E. Lee Capt. acknowledges the receipt of a Copy of Comm” letter of the
2"August 1843 to the Register at S*Augustine—and of letter of 22"
July 1844 to the Rec' of public Moneys at Newnansville relative to the reservation of the Keys for Military purposes on the Gulf side of the Florida Coast—In case the general authority there given should not be considered to include the Dry Tortugas, at the termination of the Florida reef and far removed in the Gulf application will be made to the President for special directions for their reservation—Wilson Feby 25/45
"Ante, p. 705. "Ante, p. 934. 563214–62–65

</docbody>
<dochead>PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF WEST FLORIDA</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 26, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>The undersigned inhabitants of West Florida, Memorialists, To the Senate and house of Representatives in Congress assembled, do respectfully herewith petition that honourable body in the following prayer Viz. That having a full knowledge of the want of suitable Quarters for the comfort and Convenience of the US troops stationed for its defence in Pensacola harbour do Respectfully request proper appropriations be made to erect such for a full Regiment the probable number required to Garrison the three forts, at the site of Barrancas the healthiest location in the neighbourhood of the Forts and So Conveniently situated as to be within a few minutes run of Either Forts Pickins or M"Ree. The Memorialists take upon themselves to draw the attention of Your honourable body to this Subject through Motives of humanity and Justice to the Soldiers who are stationed here and on whose lives we trust the defence of our families and our property. By Enquiring of the engineer & Quarter Masters department, your body will ascertain there never has been provisions made for Quarters for the Soldiers designed to Garrison the forts in Pensacola Harbour. The consequence is they are now living in temporary Sheds at Barrancas erected by their own labour hardly sufficient to protect them from the storm and not from the inclemency of the weather and that while in the neighbouring state of Louisiana and in East Florida the soldiers have had erected Comfortable Barracks at neither forts Pickins M*Ree or Barrancas has any provisions been made for the Most important Station in the South and the Key of the several Southern neighbouring States. besides the object in a national point of view is important to the Government. Should accommodations be made at the healthy site of Barrancas for troops for instead of having to incur anually the expence of hiring ground building Sheds
&c at Pass Christian for those stationed at New Orleans and Baton Rouge and also at Indian Key for those stationed at Key West during the Sickly Months They Could be Concentrated at Barrancas and undergo in a large body the elementary exercise of drill &c so necessary to decipline and in fact be made a school of practice for infantry and Artillery and We ever pray. &c. &c Eben Dorr Fran” Morano U. S. Marshal D. W. F— Juan Brosnaham Clement Brown C N Jordan J C Julian J. H. McRae E D Avery John Campbell

F L OR I DA
Henry Hyer Chas C. Keyne Henry Farmer Wm W J Tilly M. Quigles Joseph Sierra James Knowles Geo. W Barkley Stephen F Phillips Thomas Williams Wm S Sanford F. S. Walters F Fand John Honaker F Landon A. Collins A. J. Collins Sam S. Mcelkins Pedro Gonzalez Walker Anderson U. S. Atty for M. Fla Saml Y Gonzalez R. A. Mitchell George Willis J.T. F. Ingraham
[Endorsed]
Jackson Morton William Copp F M Maura M. J. Hernandes Joseph Gonzales W B. Jerrison John M*Allister Tho" Conlin James M“Claskey Peter Knowles Jos Quigles Wm. B. DaViS
John Pons Thomas Westbrook John M*Kinley James V. Osborn Wm Waters Manuel del Banco Joseph Fassiola William Grant Wm MeVoy M. H. Hernandes Francisco Collins Jasper Strong J. M. Scovill Florida Petition of the citizens of West Florida praying for the erection of suitable quarters and barracks at Barancas for the use of the United States Troops stationed in West Fla Feby 26 1845
</docbody>
<dochead>Referred to the Committee on Military Affairs Florida Appropriation for the troops at West Florida . Feb 26 Refd to Com. on Military Affairs Com. of Military Affairs " Levy JOHN PARSONS TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, PLC Incoming Corres.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>WASHINGTON Feby 27th 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I beg leave to call your attention to some cases of mine now in your office, of entries in the St. Augustine Land District, of Florida.
* House Journal, 28 Cong., 2 sess., p. 484. No specific appropriation appears to have been made for quarters for the troops at Pensacola. But in the act approved Mar. 3, 1845 (5 STAT. 746—747), there is an item of $170,000 for repair and enlargement of barracks and for the erection of temporary cantonments at such posts as may be occupied during the year.

They are entries made when John C. Cleland was Receiver, and, not being regularly reported by him, patents have, in consequence, been refused. To remedy this irregularity the act of June 15" 1844 was passed.” But it is now contended that these cases are not within the purview of this act, because the entries were of lands not subject to private entry.
It is respectfully submitted, that as Mr. Cleland was the agent of the Government, to sell these lands, and that individuals could not be expected to know whether the lands they applied to enter had or had not been offered at public sale, except upon information derived from him, that the error could not be the fault of the purchasers. The irregularity of these sales was designed to be remedied by the act of
1844, which was a virtual recognition of the acts of Cleland while Receiver, extending that justice to the citizens for which they have never looked to the Government in vain.
Being an act of liberality and justice, it is submitted that it should be liberally construed, and that although the entries mentioned may not come plainly & strictly within its letter, that they are clearly covered by its spirit—It is therefore hoped that you will order the relief contemplated by that law to be extended to these cases.
I am, Sir Respectfully Yr Obt. Serv" -
JNO. PARSONS
HON. THOMAS H. BLAKE Comm” Genl. Land Office Washington
[Endorsed] Wash" D.C. 27 Feb. 1845 Jno. Parsons Rec' at Newnansville, Fla. Relative to Cleland Receipts—St. Augustine Fla. entries See reply dated March 6" 1845 * Wilson Feby 28/45
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF ST.
</docbody>
<dochead>AUGUSTINE</dochead>
<source>[NA:HF, 28 Cong., 2 sess.:DS]</source>
<place-time>[Referred February 28, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress Assembled.
Your petitioners, inhabitants of the City of S" Augustine Florida, respectfully represent, that most of the youths of this ancient town are growing up without education and that their parents in many instances are too indigent to pay for their instruction. The government of Spain made no provision for any School or College in East Florida, and consequently many of our inhabitants are without that
72 5 STAT. 673.
73 Not found. 

education so indispensable to a free people. Without education, neither our Constitution or laws will be understood or maintained.
The rights and liberties of our Citizens, though Secured by the great Charter of our union, will serve but little purpose unless the principles on which it is founded shall be firmly and clearly impressed on the minds our rising generation. The protection and blessings we have enjoyed under your patronage for more than twenty three years, has taught us the value of liberty, and inspired us with devoted attachment to the United States. The salubrity of S*Augustine is known throughout the United States, and a Site more advantageous for the establishment of a college, will not be found in all the South. The catholic congregation, represent that their Church covers most of the lot on which it Stands, and they have not ground Sufficient to erect a college thereon. That the grants to private persons made by the Spanish authorities, long Since, covers all the land in the vecinity of S*Augustine, so that for many miles around, no School Sections could be reserved, thus leaving the inhabitants of this City destitute of the donation which Congress has so liberally provided for the inhabitants of other Townships.
Your petitioners State that many of our citizens are decended from Spanish ancestors who Settled in this City, while this province was in possession of Great Britain and had been kept under the Military Government of Spain until the transfer of Florida to the United States. They have during that time enjoyed but few privileges of improvement or education.
Your petitioners therefore pray that fifteen Sections of land may be granted to the Catholic Congregation in this City to enable them to erect a Suitable Institution of learning, and that a lot in the said city known in the Plan and Survey of the Same, as the Custom House lot, adjoining the lot on which the Catholic Church Stands, may also be granted to said congregation, on which to found a college. Your petitioners state, that the Custom House was many years since destroyed by fire and has ever since remained unocupied and is now a heap of ruins. That the United States will never need at this place a Custom house, and the said lot is in the middle of the City and cannot be built upon while owned by the United States:—
its condition renders it a nuisance.
The Catholic Clergy at their own and the congregation's expense, have now a common school and from their zeal and untiring energy they have under tuition about seventy five boys, many of whom are taught gratis and the others pay but a nominal Sum for the learning they receive. With the aid Solicited of Congress your petitioners entertain no doubt that the Catholic Congregation here will establish an institution that will do credit to our country. Youths from

every quarter of the South will find it most advantageous to enter the College, not only for education, but for the security of health.
With these views and for a purpose so important and beneficial, we your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray &"
Pedro Benet Thomas Andrew John M. Fontané
Manuel Crespo W H Williams Cristobal Bravo E B Usina E. J. Medicis Joseph A Strischka Laurence Andreu John Ponce Vancy Mel Gabriel Andrew B. OliverOS
Gabriel Pacetty Gabriel Pomar Andres Papy Juan Capo Jaime Hrnandes Juan S Pacetty Bartolo Pacetty Venancio Sanches Edward Garey Joseph Sanches James R. Sanches Edw Ar. DeCottes J I Papy Roque Leonardy H. L. P. Woolf Donato Bravo Felipe Gomez Jose Papy S. J. Segui Michael Neligan Anthony J Noda Wardens of the R. C. Church of S*Augustine.
Joseph Noda Andre Ximenes Victorno Frey G. N. Pappy C. Borcaudy Antonio Canovas S"
Gabriel Marten José Canovas Rafael Oliveros Frederick Weedon John Ferreira Geronimo Alvarez Francis Guè
Louis Costter Geo Center Jo” Hernandez Vesante Leonardy Joseph F. Pappy Junior Joseph Masters Bernardo Segui John Pellicer Eman' Solana John Manucy Matias Leonardy Celestino Leonardy Enrique Tomas Martin Canobas John C. Canovas Martin Stevens Raph Bleanove Robt. Martin Jose E. Pomar Bartolo Pons Jose Benet
[Endorsed] Florida Memorial of Trustees of Roman Catholic Church
& citizens of St Augustine for grant of land, & lot for school purposes—
1845 Feby. 28. Refd to Com on Pub. Lands * Levy
* House Journal, 28 Cong., 2 sess., p. 532, No further action noted, 

</docbody>
<dochead>JACOB E. BLAKE TO THE CHIEF ENGINEER</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE, TB Lets. Recd.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>ST. AUGUSTINE E. F. March 3rd. 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>COLONEL: I received your communication of the 31st January *
when on the point of leaving for the Haulover, the report called for therein was made on the 1st Feby," but delayed in its departure near two weeks owing to the failure of the mail.
I have lately returned from a re-examination of the Haulover, having examined so much of the country in that vicinity as the recent surveys of the deputy surveyors acting under instructions from the General Land Office rendered necessary. I have not found it expedient to change the position of the canal intended to connect the waters of Mosquito Lagoon and Indian River, being satisfied after careful examination of the localities with that view that the cut across the Haulover at Fort Ann is the best position for the contemplated work.
It will be seen by consulting the printed map accompanying my previous report " that the direction of the cut is objectionable being almost perpendicular to the direction of the currents both of Indian River and Mosquito Lagoons. This original location, faulty in itself, was made in consideration of its being the shortest line across the narrow neck of land forming the Haulover, and it being contemplated to construct it by the troops with as little expense as possible.
This measure having failed, more care has been taken to give the canal the best direction to guard against the formation of bars at either mouth, and a different location made, increasing the distance to be cut about 150 feet, which however will involve but slight additional expense in its construction I see no reason to change the amount estimated for in my letter of the 1st. February; by reports in the newspapers of the action of Congress on the subject I find that $5000 has been appropriated by the House for this purpose; this together with the $1500 already appropriated will I think ensure the construction of the canal—
Should the additional sum of $2500 asked for the completion of the survey of Rail Road routes across the Territory be appropriated I
would beg that the earliest information may be given me in order that I may complete the surveys before the warm and possibly wet season should interrupt our work.
The aid of another officer of the Corps, who is not quite unexperienced, if such an one is disposable would be of great assistance to me, as I find no little difficulty in performing all the duties assigned me
* Not found.
* Not seen. "Cf. ante, p. 802, 

with my present force—My office work must necessarily be in arrears and the field work is done to great disadvantage—Another citizen assistant would draw too heavily on the appropriation—
Maps exhibiting the result of my winter's work both on the Canal and Rail Road will be forwarded as soon as practicable—
I am Sir; with great respect; Your Obdt. Svt.
J. EDM." BLAKE 1st Lieut. Top Eng"
COL. J. J. ABERT: Chief Top Eng" Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] 285 T.B. 1845 S" Augustine Mch 3" 1845 L. J. E. Blake Reports the result of a re-examination of the haulover, & requests that an Officer of the Corps may be ordered to report to him for duty.
will forward maps exhibiting his winters work, as soon as practicable.
Recd Mch 11th 1845
</docbody>
<dochead>THE CHIEF ENGINEER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, CE Com. to SW and Cong., Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>Engineeer Department WASHINGTON 7" March 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HON Wm L. MARCY. Sec of War.—
SIR In reply to the letter from the Secretary of the Treasury of the 3" inst:” reporting that the reservation of the S.W. portion of the Island of Key West could not be made for Military purposes, I beg leave to state, that as the Commissioner of the Genl Land Office reports, that the whole Island is covered by claims which have been confirmed; it would seem unnecessary to require the Survey proposed by the Commissioner, unless the Survey of the Island is necessary to reserve to the U States the Shoals which envelop the S.W point.—
It is very important that these Shoals at least should be reserved and I have therefore to ask that the Secretary of the Treasury may be requested to direct the reservation—
The limits of the Shoals desired are embraced between the water line of the Shore of the S.W. Point of the Island (commencing at its intersection with the Old Town plat, and extending South to the Light House, Point, & thence East, half a mile from the Light House)
and the Channel."—
Very respectfully. Your Obdt Servt.
JOS. G. TOTTEN Col & Chf Eng"

</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE J. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Sur. General ST. AUGUSTINE 10th March 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I beg leave to call your attention to the fact that the sum of fifty nine dollars & 62 cents is still due me for private surveys executed by Lewis M. Prevost under contract dated 15" Dec 1842.
which has been suspended from the consideration that there was no appropriation for private surveys—
The sum of ninety dollars & eight cents is also due to George Mackay for the location of private claims under his contract of 12” February
1844–
And the further sum of one hundred & seventy one dollars is alike due to Henry Washington for the survey & location of private claims made under-contract bearing date 15* February 1844.
These several sums amounting in the whole to Three hundred &
twenty dollars & seventy cents—I respectfully request may be charged to the appropriation of $5.000—made at the session of 1844–& which was designed exclusively to pay for the survey & location of the private claims in East Florida—& their connection with the public lands.
All these surveys have been received and approved by me & allowed for at the former rate of $4. pr. mile.
I must again respectfully call your attention to my several communications upon the subject of the amount necessary to complete the payments to A. H. Jones—George Mackay George Houstoun & Henry Washington. The bal. required is near $2.000. These Gentlemen upon leaving for the Field executed full receipts & obtained from me an acknowledged balance which they have left in the hands of merchants who are very impatient for their money.
The approved maps as heretofore reported, of each of these surveys, only await the entry of the entire voucher, to be forwarded to Washington.”
I have the honor to be Very respectfully Yr. obt. Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY Sur. Gl HON. THO" H. BLAKE Commissioner General Land Office
[Endorsed] St. Augustine, 10 March 1845 V. Y. Conway, S.G.
Letter 10 States that $59:62 is still due him for private Surveys executed by Lewis M. Provost under contract of 15" Decem” 1842, &
that the sum of $90.08 is due Geo: Mackay for the location of private claims under his contract of 12” Feby 1842, also $171 is due to Henry Washington for the survey & location of private claims made under
* See post, p. 1065.

contract dated 15 Feby—1844, which several sums he requests may be charged to the appropriation of $5000. 1844–calls attention to his several communications rel, the amount necessary to complete payments to Jones, Mackay, Houston & Washington—Ans" in letter of
24 Apl 1845 *—Jno. Wilson Mar 19/45 SECRETARY DUVAL TO WILLIAM COLLINS
[FSL:Govr. Exec. Corres.: M*]
Secretary's Office TALLAHASSEE March 15" 1845.
SIR, The Legislative Council of this Territory, which commenced its Session on the 6" January last, adjourned on the 11" inst, after a Session of 65 days.
The Appropriation made by Congress for the pay and mileage of the members of both Houses and pay of their officers, amounting to $14,189.20,” was exhausted in fifty days. At the expiration of that time, therefore, viz, on the 24th February last, I gave to each member and Officer (exclusive of the members from the three new Counties of Benton, St Lucie and Marion) an unqualified certificate for the amount of pay and mileage then due. These certificates, alone, are expected to be paid out of the present appropriation.
For the remaining part of the Session, viz, for the fifteen days succeeding the 24" February last, I gave to each member and officer a certificate, which will not be payable from the Treasury of the United States, unless Congress should, hereafter, make an appropriation therefor. These last mentioned certificates are all dated on the 12th inst.84
Beleiving that the three members from the new Counties above mentioned, could not properly be paid out of the appropriation made by Congress for the pay and mileage of the members at the present session, I gave them, also, conditional certificates, payable whenever an appropriation was made therefor by Congress. I
herewith send you their receipts for the same.
Enclosed, you will also find a certified copy of the Compensation Act passed by the Legislature on the 11" inst.” The amount appropriated by Congress (as you will see by reference to the Act) for Contingent expenses of the Legislature, including printing, Stationery, fuel and all other objects, is $7.675.”—The Amount appropriated
81 Not found.
* From LC, Records of States of the U.S., E.3, Fla. See ante, p. 565, n.
* Approved June 15, 1845, 5 STAT. 689.
* Cf. ante, p. 994.
* Not present. 80 5 STAT. 689, 

by the Act of our Legislature, for the same objects, including $300
for the distribution of the Laws, and the estimated amount of $400, for printing the same, is $8.778.82—This, you will perceive, is exclusive of the allowance due the ten regular and authorized officers of the two Houses, whose services for 50 days must be paid out of the Appropriation of $14,189.20.
The appropriation, then, by Act of the Legislature, for all contingent objects, exceeds that made by Congress by about $1,103.82.
I have thought it proper, therefore, to refer all the parties holding accounts, allowed in the Compensation Act of the Legislature, to the Treasury Department, the accounting Officers of which are required by law, to settle and adjust the same. All of those accounts will be forwarded to the Department in a few days.
The pay roll, containing a list of the members and officers, with receipts for their certificates; given unconditionally, for the first 50
days of the Session, as well as for those given conditionally for the remaining 15 days, will be ready for transmission to you by the next mail. At the request of M. L. Baker Esq. a merchant of this City, I have this day forwarded to you, a package containing various certificates, and an account for printing, all of which belong to him I would merely remark that all of those certificates have been assigned to him, and received by him, with a full knowledge on his part, that they cannot be paid, without a further appropriation by Congress.
As before remarked, none of the Certificates given by me, were intended or expected to be paid out of the present appropriation, except those issued to the members and officers for their pay and mileage for the first 50 days of the Session.
I am, very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida W" COLLINS Esq. " Auditor, Treasury Dep’t 
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO DELEGATE LEVY</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, Sec. War Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 25]</source>
<place-time>War Department WASHINGTON March 18, 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HON. D. LEVY, Washington City.
SIR, Your letter requesting the Department to suspend Action on the amended resolution relative to the War debt of Florida is received.”
I desire to see you on that subject if possible before you leave town.
W. L. M.
* Not found. This evidently refers to the joint resolution of Mar. 4, 1845 (5 STAT. 797), to the effect that nothing therein should prevent the Secretary of War from paying any equitable claims for supplies or loans made for the defense of the inhabitants of Florida Territory. Cf. post, p. 1063.

PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR BRANCH
[FSL:Govr. Exec. Corres.: M*]
[March 18, 1845]
Proclamation By John Branch Governor of the Territory of Florida Whereas, I have this day received official information that Congress have approved the Constitution of the State of Florida, and provided for the admission of the State of Florida, into the Union, by an Act entitled “An Act for the admission of the States of Iowa and Florida into the Union” approved March 3” 1845,” (an authentic and certified copy of which is hereunto annexed"): Now, therefore, in pursuance of the Act of the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, entitled “An Act to facilitate the organization of the State of Florida”, approved March 11" 1845"
(a copy of which is hereto annexed) I do hereby make proclamation thereof; and I do enjoin and direct the several clerks of the County Courts of this Territory, to issue an order appointing Inspectors to hold an election in the mode and manner prescribed by the Act approved 15" March 1843,” respecting Elections, to be held in their respective counties on Monday the 26" day of May 1845, the time appointed by the Surviving Members of the Committee of the Constitutional Convention or a majority there of referred to in said Act of March 11" 1845, and as directed by Said Committee: And I further direct and enjoin all Inspectors of elections and other officers to hold elections, and make returns of said Elections according to the requirements of said Act of March 11" 1845, to the end that no difficulties, or embarrassments may ensue in the organization of the Government of the State of Florida.”
* From LC, Records of States of the U. S., E.2, Fla. See ante, p. 565, n. Printed also in Dorothy Dodd's Fla. Becomes a State, p. 430, from a different source. It was also printed contemporaneously in St. Augustine, Fla. Herald, Apr. 15, 1845; St. Augustine, The News, Apr. 12, 1845; and Pensacola Gazette, Mar. 29, 1845. Miss Dodd embodies in the work mentioned the most complete documentary history of the evolution of Florida to statehood now available. The inclusion in the present territorial volume of many of the essential records incident to statehood has thus become unnecessary. 895 STAT. 742-743.
* Not present.
*1 Fla. Terr. Acts, 23 sess., 1845.
* Fla. Terr. Acts, 21 sess., 1843.
* Cf. post, p. 1083.

Given under my hand and the Seal of Said Territory at L.S. the Capital in Tallahassee March 18* A.D. 1845, and of the independence of the United States the 69* year.
JN. BRANCH Governor of Florida By the Governor THO. H. DUVAL Sec'y of Florida CHARLES B. PENROSE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 23]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury March 19th 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have received the letter of the Hon. D. Levy of the 26th February * inclosing one from Fran” Cummings to him dated January
31** proposing to purchase from the U. States lot N° 113 in the City of Pensacola for the Sum of $1500, referred by you to this Office—And in regard to this proposition have the honor to report—
That it appears from the Correspondence of the District Attorney of Florida with this office that tho the titles of the lot in question was acquired from the Crown of Spain under the Treaty ceding the Floridas to the U. States—The fact that the U. States owned this lot was first Communicated to me by letter dated the 13" January
1843," in which he advised me that propositions had been made to him to rent it, & requested instructions on that subject—.
By the Act of Congress establishing the office of Solicitor of the Treasury, it is provided “that the Solicitor shall have charge of all”
lands and property which have been or shall be assigned set of and conveyed to the United States in payment of debts, and of all tracts created for the use of the U. States, in payment of debts, due thereon;
and to sell and dispose of lands assigned or set off to the U. States in payment of debts &c”.—Under the provisions it was seriously doubted whether this office was authorised to exercise any authority or controul whatever over property acquired as this was—After further correspondence with the District Attorney as to the situation, improvements value &c of this & other lots in Pensacola acquired in the same way I address him on the 23* September 1843," as follows It is matter of some doubt if this Office was the power to take charge of the lots at Pensacola which you enumerate in your letter of the 1" of August, * Not found.
* NA(TD, ST Lets. from Cong., Bk. 8).
* Ante, p. 592. 97 Not found. 

last "They belong to the U. States, and are not in charge of any officer of the Government so far as I am advised I have concluded “that it would be best to instruct you to lease them for a term not exceeding one year with a clause inserted in the leases, that they must be surrendered if the U. States should require it within the year for any purpose whatever”—Under these instructions, the lot in question was rented by the District Attorney to Charles. C. Keyser one year for
$200–"he to keep the house & fences in repair for that period” this he thinks is a fair rent, as the house & fences are all & much out of repair”—
In regard to the value of the lot I have no knowledge except what is derived from a report made to me on that subject by the District Atty. on the 1" August 1843. in which he says “Lot known in the plan of said City as lot No 113 containing 80 feet front on Government Street by 190 feet depth on polafax Street with large frame building thereon situated on the Corner of said lot, now occupied by Charles C. Keyser—This was the old Spanish hospital.—It is in the very center of the business part of the Town and is very valuable”—
From the foregoing you will perceive that the law does not confer upon me authority to sell this lot, and that I have felt myself at liberty to take tempory charge of it; So far as to rent it & see that it is taken care of—I have felt it my duty however to furnish all the information which my office affords on the subject—It is stated in the letters inclosed by Mr. Levy " that this house & lot, is not now wanted for public purposes, and whether it ever will be necessary for such purposes I have no means of knowing—As it appears to have been set apart however for public purposes in the establishment of the Town of Pensacola, by the Spanish authorities, and the U. States, require much space for the accommodation of the Naval & Military establishments at Pensacola, it occurs to me that it will prudent before deciding on the sale of the property to cause it to be examined by the proper officers with a view to the future probable wants of the Government for these purposes—
Should you determine that it is proper to sell the lot, I beg also to suggest that the District Attorney be instructed to announce that determination so as to invite competition—It is situated in a central position in the business part of the town it is now occupied by M"
Keyser, who the District Atty. states is “a Merchant of Wealth &
respectability, and has occupied it for many years, but upon whose permission or upon what terms he does not know”—He doubtless would become a competitor for the lot, and I should doubt whether
* NA(JD Sol. Treas., Lands).
* Not seen.

it would be possible to obtain the full value of the lot without a public offer of it, & that on a reasonable credit for a portion of the purchase money—I made these suggestions as the result of my opinions in regard to the matters, and respectfully submit them for such action as you may deem necessary & proper, I return the letter of Mr. Levy
& enclosures and am With great Respect Your Very humble & Obdt. Servant—
(signed) CHA". B. PENROSE Solr of the Treasury To/ ROBT. P. WALKER Secretary of the Treasury, THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Aband. Mil. Reserv. Box 95:ALS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, MARCH 21* 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, Respecting the letters from the War Department referred by you to this office on the 8" instant " I have the honor to state, that on a previous application by that Department for the reservation of a part of the Island of Key West and the Shoals adjacent to the South West point of it, I returned an answer on the 26" Ultimo,”
that the whole Island appeared to be covered by the grant of Estrada, the Governor of East Florida, of 28." August 1815 to Juan P. Salas, confirmed by the 1* Section of the Act of 23" May 1828° to the extent of a league square (6002 50/100 Acres) in the names of John W.
Symington” and George Murray" claiming under Salas. The present application for the reservation of these Shoals, is, I believe, without precedent in this Office. There has been no survey of them, nor indeed has there been any official survey of the Island, and the reservations heretofore made have been based upon actual surveys, which gave an identity and locality. The want of a survey, however, in this case, is to a great extent supplied by the accompanying chart marked A,” on which the boundaries of the proposed reservation are colored yellow, and by which enough can be established to embrace the wants and answer the purpose of the War Department. Doubts were entertained whether this reservation of these shoals could be ordered, in view of the rights of the riparian proprietors, but upon investigation I have come to the conclusion that under the laws of
1 Present.
* Copy is present.
* 4 STAT. 284. -
* Symington purchased the island from Salas Dec. 20, 1821, and settled there in 1822. See ante, XXII, 352, n.
* See ante, XXIV, 444.
* Not present.

Spain no claim to these Shoals could be raised under the grant from that Government to Salas, and that if beyond low water mark as stated by the War Department, the reservation of them will not interfere with the rights of the riparian proprietors.”
The case is respectfully submitted for your consideration, and should you concur in this opinion, I have to request that you will obtain from the President an order for the reservation of these Shoals, and of Fleming's Key, a small Island north of Key West which is also wanted by the War Department, and on the receipt of that order the necessary instructions will be given to the Surveyor General of Florida and the Land officers at St Augustine.—the proposed reservations being within the limits of that Land District. The letters from the War Department are herewith returned.
With great respect, Your Obt: Servt THO H BLAKE Commissioner HON: R. J. WALKER, Secy of the Treasy:
P.S. In the letter from this office to your Department of the
26" Ultimo, a private survey of Key West is alluded to, which was found among the papers sent by the War Department, and which gives the contents of the Island as 1975 acres.
T. H. B
[Endorsed] Commissioner of the Genl. Land Office reports on the application of the Secretary of War to have reserved for military purposes the Shoals of the South West point of Key West, and submits the case for the consideration of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Military Encloses opinion of Attorney General."
<dochead>JUDGE BRONSON TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST, Lets. from Judges, Marshals, Attys:ALS]</source>
Office of the U.S. Judge for the Dist: of East Florida, ST AUGUSTINE
March 28. 1845
SIR—It is only within the past week that I have been enabled to obtain a copy of the recent acts of Congress admitting the State of Florida, and the Supplementary Act passed on the last day of the Session extending the Judiciary System of the U.S. to this State &
providing for the establishment of a District Court &c."
*Whites Recopilacion Vol 2. p 46.—3d Kent. 427. 431 & 1*; Chittys Commercial laws p. 98.99—[Marginal note on MS.]
* Not found. 7 5 STAT. 742–743. 8 5 STAT. 788. 

What the effect of these laws are upon the Superior Court of this district, and how far or to what extent its powers and jurisdiction are suspended or annulled, or whether the Court or its jurisdiction is actually abolished before or until the organization of the State Judiciary and federal Courts, seem to be questions of some difficulty and about which various opinions are entertained; and connected with or growing out of these queries are one or two questions which are proper to be decided by the Treasury Department, and which I will proceed to explain—
The State Courts or tribunals cannot be organized until some time in July or August, and in the mean time the Spring Terms of the Superior Court should, according to the existing Laws, be held in five or six different Counties in this District (as I suppose also in other Districts) and the necessary orders made for transferring any remaining causes, appropriately belonging to the State tribunals, to those Courts—The Dist Court of the US, provided for by the Supplementary Act will not, I am informed, be organized by the apptm" of Judge, Marshal &c until sometime in June or July, and even when it is organized I see no provision for the transfer of causes from the present Superior Court to that Court—
Now one of the first questions which necessarily arises from this State of things is, whether the Marshal will be furnished with the necessary funds from the U.S. Treasury to defray the Expenses of holding the Spring terms of the Courts, and whether the Salaries of myself and other officers of the Court will be paid up to the time of the organization of the new federal and State Judiciary—On this point I should be glad to be informed immediately because if it is decided by your Department that these Expenses and Salaries cannot be paid, on the ground that the Court is abolished and the officers of it defunct by operation of the Act, admitting the State of Florida, then of course for the same reason it would seem to follow that we should not continue to do any further official acts—
You will of course bear in mind that the present Superior Court possesses the powers and judisdiction of a circuit & District Court of the U.S. as well as a Territorial Court and there are now many causes pending in it which belong exclusively to a federal Court and cannot go to a State Court;—and many such causes in which the United States are a party—If the court is considered as abolished by virtue of the Act of admission then all this class of causes fall with it or are discontinued, and the injury to the Government would be very great—
it seems to me that this cannot be the case, but that the Court must be considered as continuing in existence until expressly abrogated by Law or until some provision is made for continuing or transferring
563214–62–66

this class of causes or business to the proper U.S. Courts—The powers and jurisdiction of the Court as to Matters & causes properly belonging to State Courts, may perhaps very properly be deemed to be suspended by the act of admission, or annulled by implication, as being incompatible with the Sovereignty of the State—but as to its jurisdiction in other causes or matters properly belonging to an U.S.
Court, I see no reason why the same principle should apply, but on the contrary that the Court should continue, till some act of Congress expressly abolished the powers or until some provision was made for the transfer of that class of business to the appropriate federal Courts.
So far as it respects Territorial business, or so far as it reflects that class of causes or business which are properly cognizable by the State Courts, ample provision is made for their continuance and transfer to the appropriate State Courts (vide Sec" 2 & 4 of the Schedule &
ordinance appended to the Florida Constitution which may be found in the 4" Vol. of the Ex: Documents of the 3"Sess: of 25" Congress—
Ho: Doc: No. 208–page 20. & 21.) but that ordinance of the State authorities cannot I apprehend confer any authority on me as an U.S.
Officer, or authorise me to do any act appertaining to the Duties of an U.S. Judge Congress certainly could not have intended that there should be a kind of interregnum of three or four months, and it is manifest that the public interest would be best promoted by the present Courts and authorities continuing to act until regularly Superseded and the business can properly be transferred to other Courts—And though I am reluctant on the one hand to exercise any power or authority which may be doubtful or questionable—Yet on the other hand I
should be equally unwilling to avoid or shun any proper responsibility which may rest upon me in consequence of this conjunction of circumstances or lack of clear legal provision—nor should I regard the question whether my salary was or was not paid, as of controuling influence, but only as tending to give me your construction of the late acts of Congress and thus aiding me in determining what course I ought to pursue, or how I should construe them As the Courts, if they are held at all, must commence on the 4"
Monday of April I beg the favor of an early reply"—

I am Sir Very Respectfully Your Obt Serv"
I.H. BRONSON
To HON: ROBT. J. WALKER Secy: of the Treasury Washington DC
[Endorsed] US Judge of East Florida 28" March 1845 as to functions THOMAS DOUGLAS TO CHARLES B. PENROSE
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., Pres.:LS]</source>
<place-time>District Attorneys office JACKSONVILLE March 29" 1845</place-time>
SIR—Florida having been, “admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original States, in all respects whatsoever,” on the
3" Instant; it has become a Serious question here; whether the powers of our Superior Courts; (which were established & derived their authority from the acts of Congress entitled “an act for the establishment of a Territorial government in Florida” approved March 30"
1822" 3"Storys Laws p. 1828." The act to amend said act “approved March 3" 1823”3"Storys Laws p 1902 and the act to amend the several acts for the establishment of a Territorial Government in Florida approved May 15" 1826." Ibid 2033) have ceased to exist.
An act was also passed on the 3" Instant" providing for a District Court with Circuit Court powers for the district of Florida; but that court is not yet organised, & if it were, the act contains no provision for the removal of causes from the Superior Courts into it:
the impression of my mind at first I must confess was, that as those courts were established by Congress under the clause of the Constitution which impowers it, to make all needful rules & regulations respecting the Territory or other property belonging to the United States; or under the power resulting from the right of the United States to govern a Territory which it had rightfully acquired, &
not under the provisions of the first Section of the third article of the Constitution which does not apply to them (opinion of the Hon.
William Wirt attorney general; opinion of Attorney General of the United States p. 378, opinion of the Hon Felix Grundy attorney General Ibid pages 1236 & 1237, and the case of the American Insurance Company et al. vs Canter & others 1 Peters Rep. 541 to 546.”
All their powers ceased “Co, instanti” with the approval of the act of admission (or at least so soon thereafter as the act was promulgated)
10 3 STAT. 654–659.
* Joseph Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States, 3 vols., Boston, 1833. 123 STAT. 750–754. 134 STAT. 164–167. 14 5 STAT. 788.
* Richard Peters, United States Supreme Court Reports, 16 vols., 1828–1842.

except so far as those powers may have been continued by the Constitution of the State; which it was believed could only give them authority so far as regarded suits that might be instituted in, or such business as might be done by Judges of, the State Courts but the Judge of our Superior Court (the Hon Isaac H Bronson) for whose legal opinions I have a high respect, is inclined to a different opinion,"
& although he has not yet fully decided the question, he has intimated an opinion, that so far as the Court possesses or exercises the powers of a United States Court, & in causes & matters properly & soley cognizable in a federal Court, the powers of our Superior Courts are not revoked or annulled; if it is so (he says) the operation upon the causes & interests of the United States will be most disastrous If these tribunals are dead & defunct then of course (he supposes that) all suits & causes pending in them are discontinued & at an end also; unless there is some special provision of law, by which they are continued & (can be) transferred to other and appropriate tribunals, perhaps he is right in the view he takes of the present powers of these Courts: it were well that they possessed the power to go on with the public business; Such a State of things as he depicts, is certainly to be deprecated, As regards the State government, the Convention which formed & adopted the constitution of the State;
has by a schedule & ordinances therein declared “In order that no inconvenience might arise from the organization & establishment of the State government that all officers civil & military now (the
11" day of January 1839 the date of the Constitution) holding their offices & appointments in the Territory under the authority of the United States, or under the authority of the Territory shall continue to hold & exercise their respective Offices & appointments until Superceded under the Constitution” Had Florida been admitted into the Union immediately after the adoption of the Constitution this schedule & ordinance would probably have answered the purpose for which it was intended, without any question having been raised upon it; but during the time which has elapsed since the adoption of that instrument by the convention; most of the persons then holding offices in the Territory of Florida have departed this life; or been superceded by others. It is perfectly clear that the convention did not intend that any interregnum should take place, and it is also quite evident that it did not contemplate that so much
(or any considerable) time would elapse before the admission of Florida into the Union. Can we in this state of the case say, that the word now in the schedule & ordinance applies to the time of admission & not to the date of the Constitution? If not, can we reject
* See ante, p. 1032.

it altogether? In a word can persons not then holding office, but who have since that time been elected or appointed to offices in the Territory of Florida, either under the authority of the Territory or the United States in accordance with the most liberal rules for the construction of Statute which can be applied to that schedule & ordinance now find in it authority to “hold & exercise their respective offices?” If they can, I am not sure that it will relieve us entirely
(if at all) from the difficulty, as respects the business of the United States. I am aware that there are strong authorities to sustain the position that “Whenever the intention which the makers of a statute entertained can be discovered, it ought to be followed in its construction in a course consonant to reason & discretion although such construction seems contrary to the letter of the Statute: especially T. C.
Com, 1057.b." Plow. 205." 11 Mad 161”—1 Show 491.” Bac Abr Title Statutes 2*And that a thing which is within the intention of the Makers of a Statute, is as much within the Statute, as if it were within the letter. Zauch & Stowell Plow. 366.—10 Rep. 100:” but these rules admit of great question Dwarries on Statutes 690*—
7 Law library 40”—Willis Rep 397*—opinions of Judge Chase 4 Dall 40, a note *: and I have always thought it better that a temporary inconvenience should be suffered, than that doubtful powers should be exercised; it is undoubtedly a well established principle in the construction of Statutes, that every part is to be considered;
& the intention of the Legislature extracted from the whole; It is also true that where great inconvenience will result from a particular construction; that construction is to be avoided unless the meaning of the Legislature be plain in which case it must be obeyed (the United States vs Fisher et al. assignees of Blight 2, Cranch, 358”—1 Conds Rep 420)” and that the preamble may be resorted to & compared with the different clauses of the act, to collect the intention of the Legislature Crespigns vs Wittenover 4 Term Rep 790;” and if these
17 Reports of (English) Tax Cases (?).
18 Edmund Plowden, King's Bench Reports, 2 vols., 1571. 1” Henry Maddock, English Chancery Reports, 6 vols., London, 1817–1829.
20 Sir Bartholomew Shower, King's Bench Reports, London, 1794.
* Matthew Bacon, A New Abridgment of the Law, 6 vols., 1736.
* The Reports of Lord Chief Justice Edward Coke (?).
* Sir Fortunatus W. L. Dwarris, General Treatise on Statutes, 2 vol., London, 1830, 1831.
* The Law Library, Philadelphia, 1833–1860 (reprints of English treatises).
* John Willes, Reports of Cases in the Court of Common Pleas.
* Alexander J. Dallas, United States Supreme Court Reports, 4 vols., 1790–1800.
* William Cranch, United States Supreme Court Reports, 9 vols., 1801–1815.
* Richard Peters, Condensed United States Reports.
* Durnford and East, Term Reports, King's Bench, 8 vols.

principles can be brought to bear upon the question so as to aid us;
I shall be gratified with the result; My object in thus addressing you, is to ascertain your views in relation to these matters; and obtain your instructions as to the course to be pursued with the causes &
business of the United States now pending in East Florida. Permit me also (as these questions are very important to the interests of the United States) to suggest the propriety of your obtaining & communicating to me (at as early a period as may be practicable) the opinion of the attorney General upon them.
With great respect I have The Honor to be Sir Your Obt Serv"
THO DOUGLAS
CHARLES B. PENROSE Esqr Sol U.S. Treasury City of Washington D.C.
[Endorsed] Jacksonville Flo. Mar. 29. 1845 Tho. Douglas, Dis.
Atty—In relation to the effect of the act admitted Florida into the Union on a footing with the original states, on pending suits in the Superior Courts of the Territory in which the U. States are parties or interested. See letter to President U. S. Ap" 12. '45" letter from President Ap' 18. '45" opinion of Atty General”—Ans" at length Ap' 30, 1845* Rec" Apl. 7th 1845
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO THOMAS H. BLAKE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor Gen ST. AUGUSTINE 31* March. 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to enclose for your perusal the copy of a letter received from the surveyor of private claims in reference to the appropriation designed to cover the expenses of his surveying party.
As the surveying season has not yet expired I would respectfully suggest whether it will not be better to direct him to proceed with his surveys as I presume the present appropriation will at once be available for that object.
I also forward his Duplicate receipt for the property which he holds as belonging to the Government.”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr. Obt. Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY Sur. G.'
HON. THO" H. BLAKE Commissioner Gen' Land Office.
* NA (JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., Pres.).
* Post, p. 1047.
** Post, p. 1047.
* Post, p. 1051. 34 Present. 

[Endorsed] St. Augustine 31 March 1845. W.Y. Conway, Sur. Gen.
Transmits copy of a Letter from the Surv' of private claims in reference to the appropriation designed to cover the expenses of his surveying party. Suggests that he be directed to proceed with the surveys.
Also encloses s” Surveyors Dup. receipt for the Govt. property which he holds. Ans" 24 Apl 1845 * See letter to Sur Genl of Florida, 7
Octr 1845"—file Jno. Wilson Apl 7/45
[Enclosure]
Francis L. Dancy to Valentine Y. Conway STAUGUSTINE March 31* 1845
FOR Dr V Y CONWAY Surveyor General of Florida SIR Herewith I have the honor to forward you receipted vouchers for the expenses connected with the survey of Private Land Claims in Florida for the 1" quarter of 1845, amounting to the sum of
$1323.29 *
You will perceive that the amount appropriated for the payment of Chain Carriers &c is nearly if not quite exhausted. I have therefore in obedience to your verbal instructions “not to exceed in my expenditures the amount appropriated” suspended operations in the field, and shall as soon as possible make my report in full of my operations accompanied by the requisite Plats of the Tracts surveyed.
I am Very Respectfully Your Ob" Sv"
(signed) F L DANCY Sur" Private Land Claims PS I also enclose a receipt for public Property belonging to the appropriation for the survey of Private Land Claims in Florida *
(signed) F L DANCY
[Endorsed] Copy Letter from the Surveyor of private Land Claims.
</docbody>
<dochead>SYLVESTER CHURCHILL TO THE COMMANDING GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., S 146:ALS]</source>
<place-time>NEWNANSVILLE, E. Flor March 31, 1845</place-time>
<docbody>GENERAL, Within the last month I have traveled, on the old military road, from fort King to Tampa Bay, and from the latter, on the west side of the We-thloc-co-chee coves, crossing the river

at Gaines' pen, to this place. On this route I saw and conversed with nearly all of the few inhabitants settled directly on the road, and many others, as most of them had business with me, and they all, expressed their full confidence in the pacific disposition of the Indians and that the inhabitants are, and will be, entirely safe from any molestation if they will let them alone and not go among them:
But that any attempt to remove the Indians by force, will invole the country in a repetition of all the dangers and sufferings of the late war.
So far as I could learn no Indians have been seen on any of these roads since last October or November, when three men, hunting, came to a house, or near it, nine miles south of fort Dade, but did nothing to molest the family by hostile manner, or the slightest theft. The woman of that place has since become a widow, but still prefers remaining there, with half a dozen small children and considerable property in stock (cattle) rather than return to her friends and relations in the older settlements. Yet many of the more distant settlers are not pleased that the Indians are permitted to remain in Florida, and profess to apprehend iminent dangers.
Many families from the northern part of the Territory, some of them very respectable, have removed down the peninsula, and others contemplate doing so: Not satisfied with what they can find out of the Ever Glades, some, no doubt, will be disposed, for no commendable object, to establish themselves in or contiguous to the Indian district: already such an attempt has been made south of Tampa Bay. If they are allowed to fix themselves on the Indian line, the apprehended dangers and war will soon be realized. To guard against this I think the United States government should preserve a neutral border, of twenty five miles in width, between the white people and Indians, across, or into, which no white man or Indian should pass except at stipulated places, with permits.
This will occasion but very little, if any, loss to the national wealth, or State population, for that part of the country is so unsuitable for the abode of industrious, honest, white people that it is not likely the whole border would sell for twenty five thousand dollars, or support one hundred families I have deemed it proper, General, to communicate this information to you, and you may keep the letter as a public one, or throw it in the fire at your pleasure.”
* See post, pp. 1072, 1074, 1076.

I have the honor to be Sir With great respect, Your mo. ob" serv"
S. CHURCHILL Ins. Gen.
To MAJ. GEN' W SCOTT. Comg. the Army Washington D. C.
[Endorsed] Newnansville E. F. March 31, 1845 Col. S. Churchill Ins. Gen. Respecting Indians in Florida, That part of the country adjoining the boundary line of the district assigned to the few Seminole Indians still in Florida, is believed to be, in general, poor “pine barren” and would not, to any extent, be occupied by agriculturists, and any other class of settlers it is of great importance to keep from the immediate vicinity of the Indians. This can be effected, perhaps, by adopting the excellent suggestion of Colonel Churchill, Inspector General, the writer of this letter, by setting apart a neutral border of twenty five miles in breadth. It is understood that the Commissioner of the General Land Office is desirous of acertaining the boundary line of the present Indian district, with the view of terminating his surveys there at; and I would recommend, as one means of effecting the object proposed by Colonel Churchill, that the Commissioner be instructed to let none of his lines approach the Indian boundary nearer than twenty-five miles. Respectfully submitted to the Sec.
of War. Winfield Scott Ap' 17, 1845" 149/146 Shields L82. Rec"
24. May 1845 For the Sec. of War [The measure proposed, is deemed judicious—perhaps necessary, to ensure the continuance of peace and quiet on the borders, agreeable to the arrangements made by General Worth in July and August, 1842. It was agreed that the few Indians yet in Florida, should either join their Bretheren west of the Missippi—which they were urged to do—or, should they remain, that they be restricted to certain limits far south in the Peninsula, with permission only to visit Fort Brook (Tampa Bay,) where a Trading house would be established for their accomodations. Genl.
Worths communication of July 24" '42" with the minutes of a talk, Shew the terms of the agreement, which now subsist between the Parties—See also, the Secretary's despatch, (Instructions) to General Worth, dated October 18" 1844”—Respectfully Submitted—
R. Jones A. G.—April 19*]* Military Letter book p. 402 October
10" 1844"—Gen' Worth not to use force, but to persuade the Indians to go west &c &c.
"Letter not seen.
* Ante, p. 515.
* Ante, p. 967.
* Brackets on MS.
* Not found.

</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE April 8" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>V. Y. CONWAY Es Sur Gen St Augustine Florida SIR, Yours of the 17* February has been received," enclosing one plat of Township boundaries and five Township plats, being the entire resurvey of A. Worrall Esq. on the Withlacoochee River. I
am surprised that you should have approved this work, and sent up the account for it to this Office for payment, when from the diagram returned by you, the surveys by M. Weightman in Townships 15.
16. 17. 18.19 & 20 of Range 19. Township 14 of Range 20, and Township 20 of Range 18 overlap the surveys by Clements, resurveyed by Worrall, from one to one and a half miles on the parallels and a half mile on the meridians. But this surprise is immeasurably increased when by referrence to the plats of these townships transmitted by you on the 30th Aug, 1843 * & 13" May 1844." the two surveys are represented as harmonizing perfectly, the lengths and bearings of the lines and connections all given, and the work appearing as perfect as could could be desired, and all examined and approved by you. These things have a tendency to destroy the confidence of the Office in the correctness of your returns and to produce such doubt of your Official acts as to delay the public business. It is hoped however that a similar exhibition of carelessness, to say the least of it, will not again occur. I have suspended M. Worrall's compensation for the work done by him in these Townships until this Office is satisfied that he correctly retraced the lines heretofore surveyed by Clements, when thus satisfied the amount suspended will be immediately remitted to him. For the balance of his account a requisition was submitted on the 3" inst, to the Secretary of the Treasury, with a request that it be remitted as directed. You will immediately recall all the Township plats in which these errors exist, which have been sent to the land Offices, and appoint one of your most experienced Deputies, in whose skill and integrity you have implicit confidence to correct these surveys. On the presumption that the Diagram returned by you on the 17" of February last correctly depicts the state of these surveys, you will instruct the Deputy to cancel all the marks of every description made by Clements which interfere with Weightman's work in Townships 15. 16. 17. 18 & 19
of Range 19, to retrace all the lines originally run by Clements in these Townships, which are not interfered with by Weightman's work
* NA (GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.).
* Not found.
* NA (GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.).

and to close the work in those Townships and establish new township and section corners upon Weightman's exterior meridians and parallels, in such manner that the new corners shall be distinguished from those established by Weightman. The sections will retain the numbers which they now have in the field as shewn by the accompanying diagram.” This tier of Townships cannot now be made perfect without an immense cost to the Government and as the land is reported as not being valuable it is deemed proper to make the corrections at the least possible cost and hence this patch work, which is disgraceful to the service, must now be adopted, the necessity for which should never have existed, and would not, had proper care and attention been given to the business. So much of the lines run by Weightman in Townships 20 of Ranges 18 & 19, as interferes with the lines formerly surveyed by M Clements in Townships 19 of Ranges 17 & 18 will also be cancelled and the necessary connections given to calculate the areas of the fractional sections thus caused upon the entire Northern boundary of T. 20. R 18. and in part upon the Northern boundary of T. 20 R 19.
On the accompanying diagram the surveys are represented as reported by you and if your report is correct, the dotted lines on that diagram are those which must be obliterated in the field as above directed, and the numbers of the sections those which must remain upon the field, you should furnish the Deputy with a Copy of this diagram, and instruct him, first to ascertain whether it is correct and if so to obliterate the dotted lines in such a manner, that they will not mislead or produce confusion, and to number the sections as thereon indicated. The offsets on the old basis parallel between Townships 14 & 15, shewn upon the diagram transmitted by you, have induced the idea that the survey by Mr Weightman of T.14. Range
20 overlaps the old surveys in Townships 13 & 14 of Ranges 19 & 20, but as these interferences are not shewn upon the Diagram returned by you, specific instructions in relation to these Townships cannot be given. The Deputy should first examine those interferences and also the work done by M Prevost, which I fear is in like condition and make immediate report of the whole matter to you, that instructions may be sent to him before he leaves the field. If you have remaining sufficient of the fund for completing unfinished surveys at five dollars per mile you may pay for the lines actually run and marked under these instructions at that rate, which will compensate the Deputy for his services in obliterating the erroneous and interfering work, and if you have funds for that object you can also contract with the Deputy for the resurvey at $4 per mile of such other portions of the work contiguous to the contracts of Mess"
* Present.

Wightman & Prevost as will create an inducement to him to take the contract.
From the evident and total disregard of instructions manifested in the location of permits No" 89–139–796 & 508 in T 19 S. of R 17 E, it would seem to be useless for this office to send you instructions.
The location of these permits is a subject which has been so fully discussed and the principle—that they must be located in accordance with legal subdivisions—has been so distinctly inculcated, that it was thought there could be, with relation to it, no misunderstanding.
If you will refer to the surveying laws and instructions you will perceive that there is no authority to lay down the West boundaries of permits 89 & 139, or the south boundary of 508, or the North boundary of 796, in the manner indicated on the plat. If these boundaries have been run on the field, Mr Worrall must correct them before full payment can be made for his work, and if only laid down on the plat they must be corrected, and the plat is herewith returned for that purpose. It is hoped that a similar subdivision will not again be made, and to prevent a recurrence of such errors, I refer you particularly to the act of 11" Feby, 1805" the provisions of which are so plain that they cannot be misunderstood.
You will please prosecute this matter with all vigour, as M' Worrall's account for these interfering surveys will remain suspended till the necessary examinations are had, and if, on examination, the error is found to be in the retracing of Clements work you will report the facts immediately to this office, that other and further instructions may be given.”
Very respectfully Your ob Svt THO H. BLAKE Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>WALKER ANDERSON TO SETH BARTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., Pres.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the U.S: Atty for W. Fl" PENSACOLA Ap'9" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I wish to procure your advice and instructions in relation to a question of importance which has occurred in this district and which

grows out of the recent change in the relation in which Florida stands to the General Government.
The question is, whether the United States district Courts in Florida as organized under the Territoral Government have at this time, jurisdiction of prosecutions and suits in which the United States is a party and will continue to have such jurisdiction until they are superseded by the organization of the “district of Florida” as provided for in “the act supplimental to an act for the admission of the States of Florida and Iowa into the Union and for other purposes” approved March
3rd 1845.52
The terms used in the 3" section of that act are prospective—
“that the said State shall compose one district&c” and the constitution of the State of Florida provides in the 1" section of the 17" Article as follows: “all laws and parts of laws now in force or which may be hereafter passed by the Governor & legislative council of the Territory of Florida, not repugnant to the provisions of this constitution, shall continue in force until by operation of their provisions or limitations, the same shall cease to be in force; or until the General Assembly of this State shall alter or repeal the same” and in the fourth section of the same article as follows: “all officers civil and military now holding their offices and appointments in the Territory under the authority of the United States, or under the authority of the Territory shall continue to hold and exercise their respective offices & appointments until superseded under this constitution”—
The first legislature of the State of Florida will convene on the 4"
Monday in June and before that time, occurs the regular period for holding the Spring term of the Courts in this district—You will find from my previous correspondence with your office that prosecutions and suits against Trespassers upon the public lands in this district are either pending or ready to be preferred and instituted to a very large extent” and it is important that I should have the best advice as to the propriety of proceeding with them at the approaching term in case the “district of Florida” is not organized by the appointment of a Judge prior to the term.
There is one consideration which renders it greatly desirable to avoid delay if it can be done, and but for that consideration I myself would counsel delay so as to avoid all doubts upon the subject of jurisdiction—The prosecutions to which I have alluded are founded upon the act of the 2" March 1831* in relation to the cutting of

timber upon public lands—the cases are numerous and important for the depredations have been very extensive and very great—but the act of limitation of April 30" 1790"Sec 31 which restricts the penalties of all such acts as that of 1831 to offences committed within the last two years has already exempted many of the trespassers from prosecution and the lapse of every additional month is depriving the United States of the protective benefit of this act. It is now nearly twelve months since Lieut: Farrand of the Navy received orders to attend to this subject (& this first put the Trespassers on their guard)
and if no bills can be preferred till the first court of the district of Florida is held at Tallahassee in January next as is provided by law, it is obvious that nearly all the offenders previous to L'Farrands arrival here will be protected form prosecution by the act of limitation.
These considerations make it desirable that the bills should be preferred at once if it can be done, but of course, if our existing Courts have no jurisdiction, it is best that no abortive attempt should be made to enforce the law.
With regard to the civil suits which have been and are to be instituted in behalf of the United States, I do not apprehend that any loss or inconvenience would ensue if delay should be thought expedient or necessary.
An answer to reach me by the 10" of May at latest is respectfully solicited.
I have the honor to be Sir! Most respectfully Yr obt Servant WALKER ANDERSON U.S. Atty for W. Florida TO THE HON: S. BARTON Sol" of the Try
[Endorsed] Pensacola April 9. 1845 Walker Anderson Dis. Atty.
Relative to the effect of the act admitting Florida into the Union, on suits &" pending in the Superior Courts of the Territory. Ans" Ap'
22° 1845." Rec" Ap' 17. 1845.
</docbody>
<dochead>THOMAS H. BLAKE TO THOMAS J. HODSON</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>April 10, 1845</place-time>
<docbody>THO" J HODSON Esq Register &c Tallahassee Florida.
SIR, Your letter of the 1" inst,” in reference to the time when your salary should commence, is received, likewise the returns made out
* 1 STAT. 112–119 (sec. 32).
* NA(JD, Sol. Treas. Lets. Debts and Suits, Bk. 24). See post, p. 1047.
* Appointed and confirmed in succession to Robert S. Hackley as register of the Tallahassee Land Office, Jan. 23, 1845, and confirmed Feb. 14 (Senate, Exec. Journal, VI, 388, 396). Hackley had been appointed Dec. 28, 1843 (ibid., pp. 201, 207).
* Not found.

by you under instructions from this Office—In your letter you ask if it is not equitable that your pay should commence from the date of the last return made by your predecessor, -in reply I have to state that it is inadmissible as M* Hackley has been paid his salary for the
4" quarter 1844, and will receive it up to the day of his death on the
4" January following, that your Commission is dated 25" February, Bond & Oath 5" March 1845, and the books & papers receipted for by you on the 6" March last, when your salary will commence.
Very respectfully Your Mo: Ob THO. H. BLAKE Comm.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE PRESIDENT TO SETH BARTON</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., Pres.: ALS]</source>
<place-time>[April 18, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>To SETH BARTON Esq Sol. of the Treasury SIR I referred your letter of the 12" Instant " “in relation to the effect of the admission of Florida into the Union on an equal footing with the original States upon pending suits and processes in the Süpreme Superior Courts of Florida in which the United States are interested,”—to the attorney General.—The attorney General—has this day—
furnished me with his written opinion—upon the legal epihi questions presented in your letter,-in which he concurs with you, in the conclusion to which you have come.—You can therefore give the instructions to the District Attorney at Jacksonville Florida accordingly.—
JAMES K POLK
WASHINGTON 18." Ap' 1845.—
[Endorsed] April 18, 1845 The President, U. States. Respecting the effect of the admission of Florida into the Union, upon the Suits &"
pending in the Territorial Courts—Transmits Opinion of Atty. General—Rec" April 19. 1845
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. Recd., Pres.: LS]</source>
<place-time>ATTORNEY GENERALS OFFICE 18" April 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>To/ THE PRESIDENT.
SIR I have had the honor to receive your communication of the 12"
Instant," referring to me a letter addressed to you by the Solicitor of the Treasury, of that date, and asking my opinion in writing on the questions therein presented for your consideration.
* NA(JD, Sol Treas. Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 24).
* Not found.

By the 1* section of the Act of March 3" 1845" it is enacted, “That the States of Iowa and Florida be and the same are hereby declared to be States of the United States of America, and are hereby admitted into the Union on equal footing with the original States in all respects whatsoever.” The Judicial system established by the laws of the United States for the Territory of Florida, was in full force at the time of the passage of this Act. When she becomes a State of the Union, and at what time the jurisdiction of these Courts shall terminate,—whether on the passage of the Act, or when her organization shall have been completed by her own State authorities, acting under her State Constitution, as to all subjects within the control of her Legislature, and as to others by the complete organization of the Federal Courts, authorized by the Act supplemental to the Act before referred to, are questions of much interest. They are however questions for the Judiciary itself, and must be settled by the Court. I will only remark, that it cannot be presumed to have been the intention of Congress to have produced an abeyance of all Government in Florida, from the passage of the Act of admission to the organization of a new order of things,—that there was to be no Government, Executive or Judicial, and no laws except the fundamental law established by their Constitution. On general principles, I am clear in the opinion, that this is not the result, and such has been the practice it is believed in at least ten of the thirteen new States heretofore admitted into the Union. I therefore entirely approve the course indicated by the Solicitor of the Treasury, of instructing the District Attorneys to proceed with the business of the United States in the existing Courts. But as I have before remarked, this is a question of Judicial authority on which my official opinion would have no controlling influence with those on whom its decision devolves.
The only question involving Executive authority and action is:
Have you now, in the recess of the Senate, the power to appoint the District Judge, the District Attorney, and the Marshal, whose offices were created by the Act entitled “An act supplemental to the Act for the admission of the States of Iowa and Florida into the Union,”
approved March 3" 1845?” The question has often occurred, and the interpretation of the Constitution has been so well established, that I cannot doubt on it. If vacancies are known to exist during the session of the Senate, and nominations are not then made, they cannot be filled by Executive appointments in the recess of the Senate. And the rule is the same, where offices are created by law, 61 5 STAT. 742-743.
* 5 STAT. 788, 789.

taking effect during the Session of the Senate and no nominations are made. As the Act referred to made no provision for the transfer of causes, it is perhaps fortunate, and may have been expected by the Senate that no appointments can be made until the next meeting of Congress.”
I have the honor to be Most respectfully Sir Your obedient Servant J. Y. MASON
[Endorsed] Attorney Gen" Off. April 18, 1845. Hon: John Y.
Mason, Atty Gen Opinion as to the admission of Florida into the Union on a footing with the original states, upon suits &" pending in the Superior Courts of the Territory.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE POSTMASTER GENERAL TO WASHINGTON CHAPMAN</dochead>
<source>[NA:PO, PMG Letter Book R—I]</source>
<place-time>POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT 18" April 1845</place-time>
<docbody>P.M. Marianna, Jackson Co. Flor.
Your several letters touching the late depredations upon the mail on Route 3519, and the arrest of Smith the carrier, supposed to be the culprit, have been received." You have no doubt given all the information necessary to the District Attorney to enable him to prosecute the offender, and it is hoped such facts may be elicited in the investigation as will lead to the conviction of the guilty. I have delayed answering your letter until this moment in order to obtain information from New York touching the draft or check mentioned by you, as having in possession of Smith. I find on applying at the Bank of the Metropolis, that checks or drafts were drawn on the 11" of Feb 1845, on the Bank of Commerce of New York, No
5830, for $20, and No 5831, for $50 in favor of William D. Bean.
On enquiring of the Bank of Commerce, I am informed by the Cashier, under date of the 14* inst, that the draft first named for $20 was presented on that day for payment, by James Hall & Co. of New York, who represent that they received it from Mr Judson, broker New Orleans. Payment was refused, on the ground that the endorsement on the draft of the name of Bean was forged,—The Bank having been previously notified by Hon. Mr Hamlin, of Maine, of the draft of Bean, before the drafts could have reached him.
I have addressed the Hon Mr Hamlin for particulars respecting the remittance of these drafts to Bean, and hope that the circumstances which are here disclosed, added to those already in the pos-
* Cf. post, p. 1051.
* Not found. 563214–62–67

session of the District Attorney, will enable him to bring home the felony to the guilty person. The answer of Mr Hamlin will be forwarded to you for the information of the District Attorney, to whom you will forward this letter. The case, in duplicate, has already been forwarded to the Special Agents—L. G. Alexander Augusta Geo and James B. Marshall, New Orleans.
C. JOHNSON P.M.G.
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES SHIELDS  TO SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>GEN: LAND OFFICE April 18, 1845</place-time>
<docbody>R & Rec" Newnansville Flo:
GENTLEMEN. Until further instructions, you will suspend all sales in the following townships and Sections, in the Newnansville Land District, Viz:
Townships 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 South of Range 19 East. Sections
35 & 36 in T14, of R 19. Sections 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 & 36 in T14, R 20–Sections 1 2 3 4 5 & 6, in T15, of R20. Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6, in T 20 of R 19. Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, in T 20 of R 18. Sections 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, in T 19, of R 18. Sections 35 & 36 in T 19
Of R. 17.
Very respectfully Your Obt Serv"
JA" SHIELDS Comm 
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES SHIELDS TO SAMUEL RUSSELL</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. Sent, Fla. Armed Occupation, Bk. 5]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE April 29" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>Register of the Land Office at Newnansville E. Florida.
SIR; In reply to your letter of the 17th ins" you are advised that in cases of forfeitures under the Armed Occupation Act, the lands that have not been Offered at public Sale, must of course be first offered as in all other cases, before being subject to private entry, and in cases where the land has been Offered, but withdrawn from the market by location under Said Act, proceedings must be had in accordance with the 9th Section of the Circular of the 1"
of January 1836,” in order to open such lands to free competition to purchasers.
"Shields received a recess appointment as Commissioner of the General Land Office in succession to Blake.
* Not found. "Gen. Pub. Acts . . . . Instrs . . . . . and Opinions Attys. Genl., (Washington, Gales and Seaton, 1838), II, 514–516.

Such proceedings however are not to be had without express instructions from this Office.
I am Sir Very Respectfully Your Obed" Servant JA" SHIELDS Commissioner.
</docbody>
<dochead>SETH BARTON TO THOMAS DOUGLAS</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Sol. Treas., Lets. on Debts and Suits, Bk. 24]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Solicitor of the Treasury April 30" 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR Yours of the 29" Ultimo,” in relation to the effect of the act admitting Florida into the Union, upon pending suits, prosecutions and processes in the Superior Courts of the Territory in which the United States are interested, and asking instructions from this Office, relative thereto,-has been received.
You say: “Florida having been admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original States, in all respect whatever, on the 3"
instant, -it has been a serious question here whether the powers of our Superior Courts, which were established, and derived authority from the acts of Congress entitled “An act for the establishment of a Territorial Government in Florida, approved March 30" 1822” "—
The act to amend said act, approved March 3" 1823."—and the act to amend the several acts for the establishment of a Territorial Government in Florida, approved May 15" 1826." have ceased to exist. An act was also passed on the 3" instant, providing for a District Court, with Circuit Court powers, for the District of Florida,—but that Court is not yet organized,—and, if it were, the act contains no provisions for the removal of causes from the Superior Courts into it.”
Since the 4" of March 1789.—when the Constitution of the United States went into effect, there have been thirteen new states, which have established their constitutions and been admitted into the Union, under as many separate acts of Congress. Provisions were made in but three of these acts of Congress, to wit, in those admitting the States of Maine, Missouri,” and Alabama,” into the Union for the transfer of the pending suits, prosecutions, and processes, into the new Courts established by the several acts of admission.—There may have been no occasion for such provisions in the acts admitting Ver-
* Ante, p. 1035. "3 STAT. 654–659. 703 STAT. 750-754. 714. STAT. 164–167.
* Terr. Papers (La.-Mo.), XV, 742 n.
* Ibid. (Ala.), XVIII, 753 n., 755 n.

mont, Kentucky, Tennessee,” and Maine, as those states were severally formed out of Territories within the jurisdiction of four of the original and existing states, and the Federal Court system had already been extended over them, and would remain thither, -and in all its force and effect, unless, and until changes were introduced by other laws. But it was otherwise with regard to the States of Ohio," Louisiana," Indiana," Mississippi,” Illinois "Arkansas,” and Michigan.”
They were all formed out of Territory belonging to the United States;—and it would have been interesting to know what became of the pending suits, prosecutions, and processes in their several Territorial Courts, at and after the time those States respectively were admitted into the Union—The Book of Reports, which I have had an opportunity to consult, have furnished me with no information upon the subject. Whether the suits were permitted to abate, and were commenced de novo, or whether they were transferred de facto to the new Courts and “had day” therein, according as they pertained to the State or Federal tribunals, I am unadvised. Whatever may have been the course taken in regard to them, it would seem to have been generally acquiesed in, for my scrutinies have brought me upon no adjudication which attests that any questions were raised about them, which brought to judgement the matters of right or jurisdiction involved. I had hoped to have derived some accurate and useful information, from the files and records of this Office, so far as the States of Arkansas and Michigan were concerned, inasmuch as this Office was established prior to the admission of either of them. They furnish, however, nothing very precise or positive, -but it may be regarded as a negative, pregnant with some importance, that they make known no embarrassments affecting pending suits, prosecutions, or processes, which attended the changes of those Governments.
Such a circumstance would seem to authorize strong inferences, at least, that they were either regularly tried and disposed of in the courts where they were commenced, or being transferred de facto to the appropriate new tribunals, were without available opposition, tried or disposed of there. In the absence of all counterproofs it would perhaps be allowable to carry the inferences further, and deduce like results as attending pending suits, prosecutions and proc-
* Ibid. (S.W.), IV, 407, 508, 415, 419–420, 421–425.
* Ibid. (N.W.), III, 254–260, 535 n.
* Ibid. (Orleans), IX, 1021. 77 Ibid. (Ind.), VIII, 435, 436,438–439, 441–442, 448–451.
* Ibid. (Miss.), VI, 788–789, 805.
* Ibid. (Ill.), XVII, 602, n., 604,614, n., 615, n.
* Ibid. (Ark.), xxII, 1082–1087, 1187–1191, 1250–1257.
* Ibid. (Mich.), XII, 1218–1222.

esses, in Ohio, Louisiana, Indiana, and Illinois, after those states respectively were admitted into the Union; and a long, unbroken usage like this, in the silence of the laws, might reasonably be applied to Florida in a like conjuncture.
The power to transfer causes from Superior Courts to the new District Court, in the absence of any express authority to do so, after the District Court has been organized and put in operation, is a question of much interest, undoubtedly, and as an original one, would not be free from difficulty and must have been upon us, for judgement and action, had the offices pertaining to the new Court been filled during the Session of the Senate. We are happily disembarrassed of that question at this time, as the President has wisely determined that he cannot make those appointments “during the recess of the Senate.” A just interpretation of the clause in the Constitution which confers the power to fill all vacancies, makes it plain that he is without the power to do so. It provides that—
“The President shall have power to fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess of the Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of the next Session”.
The word “vacancies” in all proper parlance, and ex vi termini must apply, and can apply, to such offices only, as have been actually vacated by death, removal, resignation, or promotion;—and surely cannot and do not apply to offices which never were filled, and which could not, for that reason, have been vacated. But were I even mistaken in this, and the expression should receive a larger interpretation, it would by no means remove the obstacles which exist to making the appointments at this time; for if the offices of Judge, District Attorney, and Marshal, created by the act of 3" March
1845,” are to be regarded as “vacancies,” then they must have been such, at and from the moment the offices were created—that is to say, while Congress was in Session, and not “during the recess of the Senate”; and, it might be added, that the word “happen” would seem inappropriate applied to any “vacancies” other than those where the changes had been wrought through power, will, or casualty.
On the receipt of your letter, I addressed a communication to the President,” suggesting these views against the power of making the appointments at this time; and he, having referred it to the Attorney General, received a reply concurring in my views, which, having approved, he transmitted to this office.* Copies of each of these communications, I transmit you herewith.”
* 5 STAT. 788, 789.
* See ante, p. 1047.
* Ante, p. 1047.
* Copies not present.

The real and the only question requiring consideration now, is; At what time does the act, admitting Florida into the Union, put an end to the functions of the Superior Courts established in that Territory by Congress?
Before responding to this question, it is proper that I should notice and dispose of some suggestions, to which your letter has called my attention, in regard to the effect and operation of the 4* Section of the XVIIth: article of the Constitution of Florida, upon the Territorial Courts, and the suits, prosecutions, and processes pending therein. That Section is as follows:
“All officers, Civil and Military, now holding their offices and appointments in the Territory, under the authority of the of the United States, or under the authority of the Territory, shall continue to hold and exercise their respective offices and appointments, until superseded under this Constitution, and all actions at law, or suits in Chancery, or any proceeding pending in any Court of the Territory of Florida, may be commenced in, or transferred to, such Court of the State as may have jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof.”
Strongly as my convictions might incline me to the conclusion, that, in regard to pending suits, prosecutions, and processes, appropriate to the adjudications of the State tribunals, the above provision of the Constitution of Florida fully meets the difficulty and provides for it, and that the terms, “now holding their Offices and appointments,” under a just interpretation, and with the help and guidance of pertinent analogies, refer and pertain to the functionaries who hold them, without regard to any changes of the individuals who may be the functionaries; yet, having no rightful jurisdiction in the premises, I do not deem it proper to give my opinion upon the subject.
Whether, however, the fourth section referred to can have any effect upon the duration of “offices and appointments”, made “under the authority of the United States,” which do not obstruct, and which may (at the option of Congress) survive the organization and establishment of the State Government, is quite another question; and still another question would be, how far “actions at Law, or suits in Chancery”, pertinent and appropriate to the adjudications of the Courts of the United States, abate with or survive such organization and establishment of the State Constitution. Can the fourth section of the article referred to preserve such Offices, or entitle such causes, to “keep day” in Court? Neither: nor for a moment, in my opinion.
Can it then abridge the duration of such offices, or abate and put an end to such causes? It is equally impotent, in my opinion, to do either.

The Executive nor legislative powers, constituted and established by Congress in the Territory of Florida, nor the functionaries administering either, can survive the change of Government when it shall be effected, because the effect of the admission into the Union is to vest those powers in offices created by the substituted State Government, and they are to be administered of course by functionaries of its own appointment.—The Executive and Legislative jurisdictions will thus have passed away, and the offices, therefore, which were constituted but to give them practical efficacy could not, by any means, or for any time, survive the disruption. But it most concerns us to know whether, if at all, the fourth section affects the duration of the judicial power vested in the Territorial Courts which were created by Congress, or under its authority? If the power, or any part of it, survives, it confers, and has, and keeps jurisdiction, and in the absence of a prohibition mere implication would be enough to save the Courts which would be essential to the exercise of that jurisdiction until their functions were supplied by substituted judicatures. But the question we have first to do with is, what effect, if any, the fourth section will have upon the judicial power vested by Congress, and in the Courts which Congress constituted; or upon the jurisdiction which it gave to such Courts; or upon the Officers appointed by the President and Senate, who minister therein. After due consideration, I am not prepared to attribute any effect in the premises to the clause referred to in the Constitution of Florida. I ascribe the whole, such as it is, and be it what it may, to the act of Congress admitting Florida into the Union. How far that act may be deemed to affect those questions will be hereinafter considered.
It may be said, that inasmuch as the Constitution of Florida has received the sanction of Congress, its provisions have derived therefrom all the weight and authority rightly due to the act of Congress itself which attested that sanction by receiving her into the Union, imparting to, and accepting from her sovereign powers, and thereby giving to those provisions activity and force and putting them in operation. Certainly, it is fair to infer, and I agree in the main, that whatever passes Congress, receives its approval, and has the impress of its authority, but then these inferences have their limitations and restraints, and can only be true and allowable in those cases where Congress has the right to examine, and the jurisdiction to decide, and the power to reject, the several and particular provisions which the instrument passed upon by Congress may contain. Does Congress possess so large a jurisdiction in the premises that it may exercise supervisory powers and discretion over state constitutions submitted to its approval without limitation, and therefore without control?
I have not so read the constitution and cannot think so.

On the application of Territories to be admitted into the Union as States Congress may, indeed, admit them, or refuse to admit them, but can it impose any binding conditions of admission which are incompatible with that precise and indispensable equality among the States, in reference both to the Sovereignty parted with, and the Sovereignity reserved, which the constitution at once allows and requires—establishes and secures? There is no one practical equality, more precious or prized, than the exclusiveness of the power, inherent in every new state, to determine for itself, without the “let or hindrance” of Congress, what provisions its own Constitution shall contain, just as every other state which has entered into the Union has decided that question aforetime for itself. Congress if, indeed, to take care that each State provides itself with a “Republican form of Government,” for none other could be adopted to abide the restraints, or realize the privileges which the Constitution imposes in the one case, and confers in the other. Beyond this, and its general acquiescence in the usual and essential results, of substituting State for Territorial forms of Government, nothing, in my opinion, is to be inferred from the admission or rejection of a State, of the assent or dissent of Congress, either to the whole or to any of the particular provisions contained in its Constitution which can be regarded as in any wise conclusive or even as authoritative. If future scrutinies shall make manifest a repugnance of any of them to the Constitution, laws, or Treaties of the Union, it would be past all the powers of Congress to protect, and hence nothing in the act of admission could save them from the penalties of nullity and aviodance, which the Constitution itself denounced and inflicts. On the other hand, those provisions which are free from such repugnance and obnoxious to no objections, derive and have, all their force and virture from the conventions which established the State Constitutions, and the people who accepted them, and none whatever from the imputed but impassive sanctions of Congress in admitting into the Uuion the States which made them.
If this were otherwise what else could follow, but that amendments, made in state constitutions after the states were admitted into the Union, being without the sanction of Congress, would be held as less authoritative, and therefore of slighter obligation, than the provisions contained in them at the time they were admitted? Such discriminations would soon originate the principle and arouse the incentive, and those influences being brought to bear, would shortly thereafter, introduce the practice of submitting all such amendments and the state constitutions themselves, to the revision and action of Congress. This would effect a practical revolution of the Government—concentrate all sovereignty in centralism—and all that identity and distinctiveness which these states preserve in Federation, 

together with all the inherent Supremacy of each in the powers they reserved out of the grants to which they made, would disappear and be lost in the sameness and oneness which would result, from this centralizing jurisdiction over the municipal Sovereignty of the States.
Hence, I do not think we can derive any aid in our examination from the saving provisions contained in the fourth Section of the XVIIth:
article of the Constitution of Florida and consequently that if the pending suits and processes in the Superior Courts of Florida are to be saved from abatement, and “keep day” therein until the District Court has been organized and put in operation, we must go in quest of authority elsewhere, and more adequate to the purpose in view.
The three acts of Congress cited in the paragraph of your letter, which I have quoted, informs us of the Courts in which the judicial power, existing in the Territory of Florida, was vested, and of the jurisdiction they were possessed of, at and before the passage of the act of the 3" of March 1845.” admitting Florida into the Union. A
careful analysis of these acts presents us with these results: -
1"That Congress constituted and established in the Territory two Superior Courts, and vested the judicial power in them “and in such inferior Courts and Justices of the Peace, as the Legislative Council of the Territory may, from time to time establish.”
2" That by virtue of those acts, the jurisdiction conferred upon the Supreme Courts, and which they were seized and possessed of, at and before the passage of the act of the 3" of March, 1845. above referred to may be summed up as follows:
1* The jurisdiction derived from an act entitled “An act of to establish the judicial Courts of the United States,” approved the 24"
of September 1789,” and the act entitled “An act in addition to the act entitled “An act to establish the judicial Courts of the United States,” approved the 2" of March 1793;” both of which acts were extended to, and given effect in, the Territory of Florida, by the two acts of Congress you refer to, -the one of the 30" of March 1822.”
and the other of the 3rd of March 1823." and vested in its Courts these jurisdictions:
1" Exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable under the authority of the United States, committed within the respective districts, or upon the high seas &c.
80 5 STAT. 742-743.
87 1 STAT. 73–93.
* 1 STAT. 333-335.
* 3 STAT. 654–659.
*03 STAT. 750–754.

2" Exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of Admiralty and Maritime jurisdiction &"; inclusive of all seizures on land or sea, or on other waters emptying therein &".
3" Exclusive original cognizance for penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the United States.
4" Cognizance, concurrent with the Courts of the several States, or the Circuit Courts, of all causes where an alien sues for a tort only in violation of the law of nations, or a Treaty of the United States.
5" Cognizance in like manner of all suits at common Law where the United States sue, and the matter in dispute amounts, exclusive of costs, to the sum or value of $100; and of all other suits of a civil nature at common law, or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500;—and where an alien is a party, or where the suit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, and a citizen of another State.
6" Exclusive jurisdiction of all suits against Consuls or Vice Consuls, save in certain cases, excepted in the first named act.
7" Power to hold special sessions of the Courts for the trial of criminal causes—to take, and in certain cases to invest, in others the power to take, bail &"
2" In addition to the jurisdiction thus set forth, and thus derived, the acts of 1822, and 1823. above referred to, and of 1826. conferred and vested the following jurisdictions in those Courts:
8" Jurisdiction in all criminal cases.
9" Exclusive jurisdiction in all capital cases.
10" Original and appellate jurisdiction in all other crimes and offences, committed against the laws of the said Territory.
11" Original jurisdiction in all civil cases in law and equity, whether arising under the laws of the said Territory, or otherwise, where the sum in controversy shall amount to $100—and in all suits in which the United States shall be parties, whatever the amount.
12" Appellate jurisdiction in all civil cases originating in the inferior Courts of the Territory, whatever may be the amount in controversy.
13"All other jurisdiction of a general nature, which pertain to Courts of the United States as such, and per se, wherever they may be holden, and perform their functions.
Such were the depositions of the judicial power in Florida, and such the jurisdiction which pertained to them at and before the act of the 3" of March 1845. by virtue whereof Florida was admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original states in all respects whatever” It is all important to the attainment of right results in the premises, that we should know, with all attainable precision, 

when this act takes effect, upon the existing Government of Florida.
Let us equire then, 1" Whether the act admitting Florida into the Union took effect from and after its passage?
If it did, it is plain that the Territorial Government of Florida is at an end, and if the consequences attributed to the demise of the Government have ensued, its executive, legislative and judicial powers have shared its fate. The very functionaries who ministered therein, being divested of jurisdiction, are void of authority. The newly created offices not being filled up, are void of all capacities for business, and destitute of all the means to enforce authority. Suits, prosecutions and processes, abated by inaction are “without day” in Court, and a sullen interregnum prevades all Florida–Chaos seizing upon the sceptre of order, reigns in triumph over reason and the laws, and all the most valued rights of citizenship are under the capricious and ruthless dominion of the law of the strongest!
If these are to be deemed some of the general and necessary results of abolishing one Government, before and until another was constituted to stand in its stead, and perform its functions, they are results, of a surety, which Congress could neither have designed nor expected.
Its own organic laws had called the Territorial Government into being, and under American usages had parcelled out its jurisdiction to appropriate Departments. No express provision in the act of admission abrogated these laws, ex instante with its passage, and if they were not abrogated then how are they abrogated yet? If they stand repealed, it is plain that implication has overcome intention, anddone it all. That intention of making the Government and its authority and jurisdiction survive the passage of the act referred to. is every where conspicuous in the act entitled “An act supplemental to the act for the admission of Florida and Iowa into the Union, and for other purposes”" which was passed on the same day with the act to which it is supplemental, and is otherwise and plainly manifest.
Proofs of this are readily adduced:
1"The 2"Section provides—“That all the laws of the United States which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same force or effect within the said State of Florida as else where within the United States.”
What laws could those have been which were to have force and effect in the State, but those which had previously “force and effect”
in the Territory of Florida, which could not have been locally inapplicable until the Territorial Government, to which Congress had made them locally applicable, had passed away, in the presence and
"1 5 STAT. 788.

by virtue of an actual change of Government, and when most of those laws which conferred jurisdiction (as I shall shew hereafter) will and must survive all changes of Government in Florida?
2" The third section provides for the establishment of a District Court which shall be held in said District, to consist of one Judge &" &"
who shall, in all things have and exercise the same jurisdiction and powers, which were by law given to the Judge of the Kentucky district
&" All this is the language of the future and not of the present. The Judge is “to be appointed. The “jurisdiction and powers” are to be vested in him. They cannot vest until he is appointed, and then and not till then, he “shall have and exercise the jurisdiction and powers” intended to be conferred. And what becomes of “the jurisdiction and powers” ad interim? Are they in abeyance? The act does not say so. No reason is assignable why it should be so. No conflict or repugnancy can arise, unless, and until there are two judcatures in esse, claiming the investiture and exercise of the same jurisdiction.
No motive to produce an interregnum is attributable to Congress—
no purpose of doing so is any where manifest, and in the silence of the laws, and where the motive and the purpose are both wanting, it would be both illogical and visionary to conclude that such an effect had been wrought.
3” The sixth section provides “that these shall be allowed to the Judge aforesaid an annual compensation of $2000, to commence from the date of his appointment, to be paid quarter yearly at the Treasury of the United States.” This vests an unqualified discretion in the President and Senate to determine when the appointment shall be made, and allows them an indefinite locus penitentiae in which to concur and fix their choice; and thus at one and the same time legalizes such delays as may intervene, & saves the office and its jurisdiction from lapsing, for nonuser, ad-interim.
4" The appropriation act, whose passage bears even date with those of the two acts referred to (3rd March 1845)” provides for the payment of the public functionaries who administer the Territorial Government of Florida, in its various Departments, by virtue of previous laws and appointments, until they shall be regularly superseded by the organization of the substituted State Government, and of the newly created District Court of the United States for the State of Florida.
5" In point of fact none of the disastrous results attributed to the immediacy with which the act was supposed to take effect, from and after its passage, have ensued. The old Government remains in full and effective operation. All the public officers continue to perform
925 STAT. 752–765. 

the duties and receive the salaries which prior laws prescribed & established. The Courts are still open to to enforce their rights and redress their wrongs; penalties are still exacted, and punishments inflicted, for disobedience to the laws; and all submit, and none complain. Practically, therefore, the act, as yet, has been without effect;
and as similar delays attended the entrance of all the other new states into the Union, and no interregnum took place in any, we are bound to conclude that these practical results were at once foreseen and designated. Both in fact and in purpose, then, the Territorial Government of Florida survives the passage of the act of admission. None attribute to that measure instantaneous effects upon the existing state of things. The Government of the Union still maintains and exercises its accustomed authority over the people of Florida, and they still recognize its power and jurisdiction, and submit to its authority. We can expect, therefore, nothing less than that this state of things will continue as it now is, up to the time when the state Government shall be organized and put in operation; and consequently, that the Superior Courts, with all the branches of jurisdiction which the analysis I have made in a previous page enumerated (from N° 1. to N° 13, both inclusive) and assigns to them, will remain unchanged during that interval. Our next inquiry will naturally be:
2". What changes will be wrought in the existing state of things by the actual organization of the State Government, and its entrance upon the functions assigned to it, by its own constitution, and by the Constitution and laws of the Union?
An essential and immediate consequence must be, to put an end to all the Executive and Legislative functions which are incompatible with the Supremacy and exclusiveness of all that municipal sovereignty which the states hold in reserve, and, while this Union lasts, may not part with, nor this Government acquire. Upon the judicial power, the effect of the change will be far less thorough and radical, because the most important portions of that power must survive all changes which are made. The third section of the supplemental act referred to specially provides, that the District Judge, to be appointed under that act “shall in all things have and exercise the same jurisdiction and powers which were, by law given to the Judge of the Kentucky District, under an act entitled “An act to establish the judicial Courts of the United States.” What such “jurisdiction and powers” are, are ascertained and condensed in the synopsis, (already presented)
wherein they are enumerated from N° 1 to N° 7, both inclusive; and which are therefore not only now in force, but are to remain in force after all shall have been accomplished, which both acts of Congress may have designed. The Superior Courts will retain, furthermore, 

that portion of jurisdiction which they acquired under the act of 1826,”
and which given them cognizance of all suits in which the United States shall be a party, whatever be the amount in controversy; and also such further jurisdiction as is referred to, and embraced in N° 13. of the synopsis I have made. It is unnecessary to decide, at this time, what will be the duration of the two branches of the jurisdiction last referred to; further than to say, and such is my opinion, that they will last quite as long as the Courts upon which they were conferred. Beyond then, no portion of the jurisdiction vested in the Superior Courts, by the several acts of Congress of 1822–’23,” and '26 will,” in my judgement, survive the change of Government, when it is effected.
But it may be said, that jurisdiction is one thing, and its depositions quite another. That jurisdiction may survive the event, which changes the depositories. So it may, when the changes take place.
I do not question at all the efficacy of the 4" section of the XVII.th.
article of the Florida Constitution, to transfer from the Superior Courts all suits, prosecutions, and processes, appropriate to the state tribunals, and where it shall appear that the concurrent jurisdiction of the Superior Courts is taken away as aforesaid, as soon as the State Legislature of Florida shall have prescribed the occasion and the modus in which it shall be done. Further than this I contest its jurisdiction to go. I regard the provisions of tis constitution quite as impotent to abolish the Superior Courts, as I have already maintained it is impotent to preserve them. The doctrine would be as novel as it would be mischievous and disorganizing, that the state authorities were competent to abolish the Courts of the United States or to dispose of, or disturb, the Government causes pending thither.
The Superior Courts of Florida were constituted and established by Congress, and in the exercise of its rightful authority; the Judges, the District Attorneys, and the Marshals who minister therein, were appointed by the President and Senate of the United States, and they are paid out of the common Treasury of the Union. Hence, though their functions may be restricted, and their jurisdiction abridged, under the new order of things, both the functionaries and the offices will outlive the change of government, and for such length of time as Congress permits. If the state authorities of Florida may abridge the duration of the Superior Courts, and control or disturb them in their allotted jurisdiction and functions, or put an end to the Government causes pending therein, what forbids their wielding a like control over the District Court, and the jurisdiction, and functions, and
"3 STAT. 164–167.
* 3 STAT. 654–659, March 30, 1822, 3 STAT. 750–754, March 3, 1823.
*4 STAT. 164–167, May 15, 1826.

causes, of which it may be seized and possessed, whenever the public authorities of this Government may put it in operation?
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that the Superior Courts have at this time, and will continue to have, until the State Government is put in full and effective operation, all the powers and jurisdiction they possessed at the time that the act for the admission of Florida into the Union was passed; that the functionaries who minister therein are as competent now as heretofore to the performance of all their duties; and that the causes pending therein at the time of the passage of that act or since that time, must “keep day” in Court until regularly disposed of thither, unless before then the State Government shall be put in operation; and that, from and after that time, that portion of the causes pending therein appropriate to the state tribunals, may be transferred thither for prosecution and trial.
Hence, and furthermore, my instructions are, that the Government suits, prosecutions and processes pending in the Superior Courts be proceeded in, & that new suits, & prosecutions (appropriate to their jurisdiction) be instituted therein precisely as if the act for the admission of Florida into the Union had not been passed."
Very Respy Your Obt Serv"
(signed) SETH. BARTON Sol" of the Treasury THOMAS DOUGLASS Esq U.S. Attorney Jacksonville E. Florida.
</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, SW Lets. Sent, Mil. Bk. 26]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPARTMENT May 3" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>U.S ATTORNEY GENERAL, By the Act of March 3" 1843," Chap. 96 “the Accounting Officers of the Treasury are authorized and required to settle the claims for supplies furnished the Florida militia, the payment of which is provided for by the Acts of August 23° 1842" upon principles of equity and justice under the directions of the Secretary of War.”
By a joint resolution, approved April 30" 1844," it is provided
“that in settling for supplies furnished to Militia in the service of the United States, under the Acts of August 23° 1842, the Accounting Officers be directed to discharge the claims for said supplies in the

following order, to wit: first, the amount due to individual claimants, and secondly, those due to the Territory of Florida, provided that the whole amount of supplies paid for shall not exceed the quantity of each description to which the said troops were entitled by existing laws.”
By a joint resolution, approved March 1” 1845,” it is provided, “that nothing contained in the joint resolution of April 30" 1844, or in any other Act or resolution shall be understood or construed to prevent the Secretary of War from allowing and paying any just and equitable claims for supplies furnished, or advances or loans of money made to provide for the defence of the inhabitants and suppression of Indian hostilities in the Territory of Florida, provided that the amount so allowed and paid shall not exceed the sums already appropriated by law.”
On the 4” of March 1839, the Legislative authority of Florida, by an Act,” a copy of which is annexed, authorized the Governor of the Territory to raise any sum of money, not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars, by issuing bonds or otherwise pledging the faith of the Territory for the re-payment thereof.
In pursuance of this authority, the Governor of Florida borrowed a certain sum of the Union Bank of Florida and a certain other sum of the Southern Life Insurance and Trust Company and issued bonds to secure the payment thereof; a copy of which is annexed."
These bonds, to the amount of forty six thousand dollars, in the hands of persons to whom they have been negotiated, as it is alleged for a full consideration, are now presented and payment thereof claimed of the United States, under the said joint resolution of the
1* of March 1845, and the Attorney General is respectfully referred to the different views taken by my predecessors on the subject of the payment of these Florida Bonds. Mr Secretary Porter decided that any balance standing to the credit of the Territory of Florida might, (before Congress interposed and directed the disposal of it)
be applied to the payment of the claim of the Bond holders. Both Mr Secretary Spencer and Mr Secretary Wilkins held a different opinion, as the case then stood, but since the adoption of the resolution of the 1* of March 1845, the latter decided that the bond holders ought to be paid. You have his views in extenso in one of
1. Cf. ante, p. 1027.
25 STAT. 797.
* Fla. Terr. Acts, 17 sess., 1839.
* Not present.
* Not present.

the papers herewith transmitted." The last resolution—that of the 1* of March last—removes the restrictions imposed by the preceding resolution—One question is—Could these bond holders have been paid under the laws and resolutions as they stood before the resolution of the 1" of March last, if these restrictions had not been attached? The second question is; does the last resolution do more than remove these restrictions, or does it confer or imply authority in case it did not exist before, (the restrictions being laid out of view) to pay the bonds now presented for payment.
The Attorney General's opinion is respectfully requested on the case here presented."
W. L. M.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO JAMES SHIELDS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Sur. General ST. AUGUSTINE 5 May 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to inform you that the Clerk of the Superior Court of East Florida has presented his bill of charge for official copies, duly certified under the Seal of the Court, of Land Claims, which have been finally adjudicated in that Court & which were furnished the surveyor of Private Claims.
It appears to me that it legitimately belongs to that subject &
ought to be chargeable to the appropriation for that object.
The case is submitted for advisement & your decision in the premises respectfully solicited.
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr. Obt. Svt.
W.Y. CONWAY Sur. Gen."
HON. JA" SHIELD
[Endorsed] St Augustine 5 May 1845. V.Y. Conway S.G. Rel:
to paym" of Bill presented by Clk of Sup' Ct. of E.F. for official copies of L* claims, finally adjudicated in that Court, & which were furnished the Surv' of private claims—Ans" 23 June 1845.” M"
Jn" Wilson June 16/45

</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO JAMES SHIELDS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Sur. General ST. AUGUSTINE 5. May 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to forward by the mail of to day a large amount of work to your office from which you will perceive that we have not been idle. The necessity for employing an extra clerk for a short time arose from my very great anxiety to bring up some arrears with the Registers which were chargeable to former negligence, needless now to refer to, but which shall not again occur. I am happy to be enabled to report to you that by great exertion & diligence we have the work of the season fairly before us & shall without doubt regularly keep pace with the surveys as they are returned into the office without again infringing upon the limit noted in your instructions of the 22nd Ult.”
The reasons for detaining the Maps now sent which have been ready for transmission some 3 or 4 months will be found in my letters of 13th Jany" 24th Feb’11 & 10th March” in this present year.
I may again remark that the Deputies who performed the work now reported & who are all in the field left with me at the time of their departure, full vouchers covering their entire claim which will be forwarded so soon as the amount is transmitted to pay them.
The statements, showing the acknowledged balance in each case, are in the hands of Merchants of this City, who advanced the several amounts for their accommodation & have been deeply disappointed &
chagrined at the delays to which they have been subjected, the vouchers for the sums actually paid were forwarded with my last Quarterly account on the 31* March 1845.” By this it will be seen Sir, that I am a creditor to the Government (including the
$59.62 bal. reported as due for the survey of private claims) to the amount of $264.81 cts Upon this subject also I beg leave to refer to my letters of 13th Jany" 28 Feb” & 10th March” present year.
I most respectfully ask that the amount necessary to pay the acknowledged balance due for the surveys of 1844, herein refered to, be transmitted with all convenient despatch together with the sum due for the survey & location of private Land Claims reported as received & approved, in the above letter, of 10* March, which I
* Signed by Blake, NA(GLO, Lets. to SG, X). 10 NA(GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.). 11 Loc. cit.
* Ante, p. 1025.
* NA (GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.). 14 Loc cit.
* Loc. cit.
* Ante, p. 1025.

have requested may be charged to the appropriation of $5.000 made at the session of 1844, exclusively for that object. And finally that the advance asked for in my letters of 13" Jan’ & 28th Feby to enable me to meet the current expences of my office which have accumulated on my hands from my inability to discharge them without having recourse to my own private funds"
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr. Obt. Svt.
W.Y. CONWAY Sur. Gen."
HONBLE JA" SHIELDS Commissioner Gen' Land Office
[Endorsed] St. Augustine 5 May 1845. W.Y. Conway, S.G.
Letter relative to the state of the work in his office & requesting that certain sums may be transmitted to make payments as specified herein–See letter of 23* Ap' in anticipation of part of this letter”
See letter of 10 July 1845” Mr Jno Wilson Red May 13/45
</docbody>
<dochead>THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:JD, Atty. Gen. Opinions, F]</source>
<place-time>ATTORNEY GENERAL's OFFICE. 8" May 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have considered your communication of the 3" Instant, as to the extent of power conferred by the Joint Resolution of the 1"
March 1845,” which is amendatory of the Resolution passed 30"
April 1844,” respecting the application of certain appropriations heretofore made.
I understand from the papers which were transmitted with your communication, that the Bonds of which payment is demanded, were given for loans of money made to provide for the defence of the inhabitants and suppression of Indian hostilities in the territory of Florida:
That the money so loaned was expended for those objects; and that reimbursement has not been made to Florida of the expenditures thus incurred, or by Florida to the Bond Holders.
It also appears that the appropriations made by Congress for these objects by two Acts of 23* August 1842* are not exhausted, and that a sum now stands on the books of the Treasury, to the credit of this head of appropriation, more than sufficient to pay the Bonds now presented.

The material question presented for my opinion is: Does the Resolution of 1* March 1845, confer or imply, authority to pay the bonds now presented for payment?
The Joint Resolution of 1845 declares, that nothing contained in that of 30" April 1844 or in any other Act or Resolution, shall be understood or construed to prevent the Secretary of War, from allowing or paying any just and equitable claims for supplies furnished, or advances or loans of money, made to provide for the defence of the inhabitants and suppression of Indian hostilities in the Territory of Florida, provided that the amount so allowed and paid shall not exceed the sums already appropriated by law.
In construing this Resolution, the intention of the Legislature is a fit and proper subject of enquiry and when ascertained, must control the construction. That intention must be collected from the Act itself, and other Acts in pari materia. Whatever the terms employed may be, they are to be construed to effectuate the intention of the Legislature. By the Act of the Florida Legislature of 4* March
1839,” the Governor was authorized to raise any sum of money, not exceeding One Hundred Thousand dollars, and to issue Bonds for the same. In execution of this power, he issued these Bonds. By an Act of Congress of 23* August 1842, an appropriation was made for preventing and suppressing hostilities in Florida, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War; and by another Act of the same date, provision was made for the payment of the Florida militia with specified restrictions.” By an Joint Resolution Act of 3" March
1843,” the Accounting Officers of the Treasury are authorized to settle claims for supplies furnished the Florida militia, on principles of equity and justice, under the direction of the Secretary of War.
By the Joint Resolution of 30" April 1844,” restrictions are imposed on the settlement of these claims and the accounting officers are directed to discharge the claims for said supplies in the following order, to wit: 1" the amounts due to individual claimants; and 2* to the Territory of Florida; with a proviso, that the whole amount of supplies paid for, shall not exceed the quantity of each description to which the said troops were entitled by existing laws.
The Acts of 1842 and the Joint Resolutions of 1843 and 1844, all required that accounts should be rendered for audit and settlement, which would at least shew on their face the particular description of supply for which payment was demanded. For without this the
23 5 STAT. 638.
24 5 STAT. 522.
25 5 STAT. 628.
26 5 STAT. 716–717. 

accounting officers could not determine whether the proviso last quoted presented an obstacle to payment. There was no difficulty in meeting this requisition of law, by the two classes of creditors to whom payment was directed by the Resolution of April 1844. Individual claimants and the Territorial Government, could readily exhibit the items of an account for supplies furnished. But there was a third class of claimants, the holders of Bonds issued under the Act of
4 March 1839, who could not do this. They had loaned their money for the protection and defence of the Territory, but had no agency or Knowledge of its expenditure. And in this state of the law and of the claims, the Joint Resolution of 1* March 1845 was passed. It differed in its terms from those which had preceded it in two important particulars. For the first time, payment of just and equitable claims for loans or advances of money, made for the defence of the inhabitants of Florida is spoken of; and the proviso removes the restriction which limited payments for each kind of supply, to the quantity of each authorized by law. Why were these important modifications made? What loans or advances of money were thus provided for? The Resolution of 1844 had explicitly directed, that Florida should be paid all claims for supplies, but the proviso implied that such payments were to be made on accounts specifying the description of supplies furnished, and it is not to be supposed, that it was in the contemplation of Congress to pay to the Territorial Government loans or advances made by individuals, and which were unredeemed by the Territory. Individual claimants had been preferred in the order of payment to the Territorial Government for supplies furnished, and were paid directly at the Treasury of the United States. By previous enactment the United States had assumed the expenditures of the Territory, and the payment to individuals for supplies furnished in the suppression of Indian hostilities, and by the Resolution of 1845, it seems clear to me, that it was the intention of Congress to assume and pay claims for loans and advances made to Florida for this great National object; and the terms employed are sufficient for that purpose.
I am not aware of any rule of construction which would forbid that this intent should be carried into effect. I am therefore of opinion, that the Resolution of March 1845 is directory, and that the thirty five Bonds now presented for payment having been given for loans made for the defence of the inhabitants, and suppression of Indian hostilities in the Territory of Florida, may be paid under the authority of that Resolution, subject alone to the restriction of the proviso, that the amount so allowed and paid shall not exceed the sums already appropriated by law.
Being of opinion that the Resolution has this effect, I have not deemed it necessary to examine the first question presented. The

course of reasoning adopted would seem to lead to the conclusion, that such payments could not be made without the authority conferred by the Resolution of 1845. I do not however, intend to express an opinion as to the equitable right of the Bond holders to be substituted for the Territorial Government. I repeat that I have not deemed it important to give an opinion on any other question than on the extent of authority conferred by the Joint Resolution of 1* March 1845, construed with the series of Acts and Resolutions in pari materia.”
I have the honor to be, Respectfully, Sir, Your obedient Servant J. Y. MASON.
HON: WILLIAM L. MARCY. Secretary of War.
[Endorsed] Florida: Certain Bonds issued by the Territory of Florida for money advanced for the defence of the inhabitants and suppression of Indian hostilities are to be paid under the Joint Resolution of 1845 which includes loans & advances of money.
</docbody>
<dochead>PROCLAMATION OF PUBLIC LAND SALE</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Rec. of Procls., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>No. 392. [May 9, 1845]</place-time>
<docbody>By the President of the United States.
In pursuance of law, I, JAMES K. POLK, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare and make known, that public sales will be held at the undermentioned Land Offices in the Territory of Florida, at the periods hereinafter designated,” to wit:—
At the Land Office at Newnansville, commencing on Monday the eleventh day of August, next,” for the disposal of the public lands within the undermentioned townships and fractional townships, Wiz:
South of the Base Line and East of the principal Meridian.
Sections one, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, thirty-five and thirty-six, in township twelve of Range Thirteen.
The eastern tier of Sections, in township thirteen of Range Thirteen.
* See act approved Mar. 3, 1845 (5 STAT. 745), authorizing the Secretary of War to pay for the services of certain milita companies during the Seminole War. See also resolution approved Mar. 1, 1845 (5 STAT. 797), clearing the way for the Secretary of War to pay claims for supplies, and loans of money made for the defense of the territory.
* Sales in Florida See President's order for postponing these Sales—dated 18th July 1845—page 360 [Marginal note on the MS. See post, p. 1083].
* Sale postponed until January 5th 1846. For a list of lands withheld from the sale which commenced at Newnansville, on the 5th Jany 1846, see letter from R & R dated 16th Jan 1846 (No. 5072). [Marginal note on the MS.] 

Sections one, two, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty eight, twenty nine, thirty two, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty five, thirtysix, in township fourteen of Range Thirteen.
Fractional township fifteen (except section six and fractional Sections seven and eighteen) of Range Thirteen.
Townships twelve and thirteen of Range Fourteen.
Township thirteen of Range Fifteen.
Fractional townships twenty-eight and twenty-nine, West of Tampa Bay of Range Sixteen.
Fractional Township thirty-four on Manatee River of Range Eighteen.
Fractional townships twenty-eight and twenty-nine, East of the Military Reservation at Fort Brooke, and townships thirty-three, thirty-four, and thirty-five on Manatee River of Range Twenty.
Townships twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty-three and thirty-four of Range Twenty-one.
Townships twenty eight and twenty-nine of Range Twenty-two.
At the Land Office at St. Augustine commencing on Monday the eighteenth day of August, next,” for the disposal of the public lands within the undermentioned townships and fractional townships, to wit:
South of the Base line and East of the principal Meridian.
Townships twenty-three and twenty-four of Range Twenty-nine.
Townships twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three and fractional township twenty-six on Lake Tohopekaliga of Range Thirty.
Townships twenty-one and twenty-three of Range Thirty one.
Township Twenty of Range Thirty-two At the Land Office at Tallahassee commencing on Monday the eleventh day of August, Next,” for the disposal of the public lands within the undermentioned Sections, situated in the former Indian Reserve of Econchatamico on the Chatahoochee River, to wit:
Lot seven in Section eight; lots seven and eight in Section seventeen;
lots seven and eight in Section twenty; lot one in Section twenty-one;”
* at St Augustine—Sale postponed until January 5th 1846. This sale did not take place:—see letter from Register 4th March 1846 (No 6600) [Marginal note on the MS.]
* At Tallahassee—Sale postponed until January 5th 1846. [Marginal note on the MS.]
* All offered, except Lot 1 of section 21—which was entered by Hugh Rusk, under preempt Act 1841; see letter from R & R dated 25th Jany 1846 (No 5307). See letter to R & R 24th August 1847: [Marginal note on the MS.]

lots seven and eight in Section twenty-nine, and lot eight in Section thirty-two, all in township five north, of Range seven, West of the Principal Meridian.
Lands appropriated by law for the use of Schools, Military or other purposes, will be excluded from sale.
The sales will each be kept open for two weeks, (unless the lands are sooner disposed of,) and no longer, and no private entries of land in the townships so offered will be admitted, until after the expiration of the two weeks.”
Given under my hand at the City of Washington, this Ninth day of May, Anno Domini, one thousand eight hundred and forty-five.
JAMES K. POLK—
By the President JA*SHIELDS Commissioner of the General Land Office.
Notice to preemption Claimants.
Every person entitled to the right of preemption to any lands within the limits of the townships and tracts above enumerated, is required to establish the same to the satisfaction of the Register and Receiver of the proper Land Office, and make payment therefor as soon as practicable after seeing this Notice, and before the day appointed for the Commencement of the public sale of the township embracing the tract claimed, (above designated,) otherwise such claim will be forfeited.
JA" SHIELDS Commissioner of the General Land Office THE SECRETARY OF WAR TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Fla. Indian Reserv. File:LS]</source>
<place-time>WAR DEPT. May 10, 1845</place-time>
<docbody>HON. ROBERT J. WALKER Secretary of the Treasury, SIR, The accompanying papers” recommend that a border of land for the distance of twenty five miles around the Indian Territory in Florida, should not at present be surveyed or put in market-
Pursuant to a suggestion this day made to you, I transmit them for your consideration.”
Yours truly W. L. MARCY.
After the papers have been Examined it is desired that they be returned to this Dept.
* See post, p. 1083.
* Not present.
* See post, p. 1076.

[Endorsed] Referred to the Com" of the Gen' Land Office for Examination R. J. W.
<dochead>WILLIAM J. WORTH TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., W189:ALS]</source>
H"Q"9" dept S*AUGUSTINE May 12'45
SIR, I have the honor to submit for the consideration of the proper authority act N° 37 of the legislative Council of the Territory of Fl" app" Feby 27th 1845. The distance of half a mile more or less will place the Court House not only within the reserved lands, as recently reduced, but utterly defeat the purpose & objects of said reservation: but within the actual limits of the Garrisson If the purpose indicated in this act be carried out it were infinitely better to abandon the post and valuable buildings—thereby avoiding collisions in which, irrespective of the original merits, the military are sure to be the sufferers.
I am Sir Very respy Yr Obt Serv"
W. J. WORTH Brig. Gen.'
To/ THE ADJ' GENERAL U.S. Army H* Q” Washington
[Endorsed] Head Qrs 9* M Dept. St Augustine, Fa. May 12"
1845. W. J. Worth. Brigr Genl Commanding Transmits an act, published and approved, to Establish the County site of Hillsborough County, the provisions of which will Establish the site within the limits of the Garrison of Fort Brooke, Tampa, Fa. May 19, 1845
Respectfully submitted to the General in-Chief—R Jones A. G. May
19* The Military post of Fort Brooke was established in January
1824 * & is situated at the head of Hillsboro Bay at the mouth of the river of the same name.—In 1830, on the recommendation of Brig. Gen Clinch, then in command of the post, the President set a part for military purposes a reserve of 16 miles square, having Fort Brooke for its centre.—February 19, 1845 Brig. Gen' Worth, on his application to that effect, was authorized by the Sec. of War, to reduce the reserve to four miles square, which constitutes its present diminsions.”—About the time the reserve was first laid off, or prior thereto, Judge Steele came to the place as an officer of the customs, & was permitted to erect a dwelling on the Hillsboro river just without the chain of sentinels.—He became an agent of M* Hackley who laid claim to the Duke of Alagon's grant covering a large part of the peninsula of Florida, & afterwards claimed: the land on which Fort
* Ante, XXII, 842-843, and index under “Cantonment Brooke.”
* Ante, p. 1015.

Brooke is situated, 1st. by pre-emption, 2" by purchase from M*
Hackley. He laid out a town around his dwelling & sold building lots—some few houses were erected, & this small cluster of buildings is called Tampa—all which is within the military reserve retained from the beginning to the present, & which is now deemed necessary for the uses of the public. Respectfully laid before the Sec. of War, who will see that the Territory of Florida has legislated the U.S. out of our reserve & military post. Winfield Scott. May 19, 1845.
[Enclosure:Pr.]
An Act of the Legislative Council
[February 27, 1845]
NO. XXXVII.
An Act to establish the County site of Hillsborough County.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, That from and after the passage of this act, the county site of Hillsborough county shall be, and the same is hereby established, on the east bank of the Hillsborough river, in said county, at a place usually called and known as the village of Tampa, one half mile more or less from the mouth of said river.
Sec. 2. Be it further enacted, That said county site shall hereafter be called and known by the name of Tampa.
Sec. 3. Be it further enacted, That it shall be, and is hereby made the duty of the county court of said county, sitting for county purposes, on the first Monday in April next, or so soon thereafter as practicable, to select and appoint five discreet persons to act as Commissioners, whose duty it shall be to superintend the erecting of a Court House and other Public buildings.
Sec. 4. Be it further enacted, That all laws or parts of laws, conflicting with the provisions of this act, be, and the same are hereby repealed.
Approved February 27th, 1845.
[Endorsed] From the Fl" Herald of May 6th 45.
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES SHIELDS TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Fla. Indian Reserv. File:ALS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, May 14” 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to return herewith the letter to you from the Secretary of War, of the 10" instant,” and its enclosures, relative to the additional reservation of twenty five miles around the district
* Ante, p. 1072.

set apart for the use and occupancy of the Seminoles in Florida, by Gen' Macomb in 1839.
On the accompanying diagram” this district is represented, as near as practicable, by red lines. The yellow lines embrace the twenty five miles additional, which the War Department suggests shall be reserved as neutral ground. These lines, you will perceive, embrace a number of Townships marked T, of which the Township boundaries only have been surveyed; and a few of those colored blue, which have been subdivided and recently proclaimed for sale, but not yet offered.
It is presumed that the object of the War Department would be obtained by limiting this reservation to twenty miles, the boundaries of which are indicated by green lines on the accompanying diagram, excluding the whole of Townships 28 & 29 of Range 22, and Townships 33 and 34 of Range 21, which could therefore be offered in accordance with the proclamation now issued. By thus reducing this reservation, the symmetry of these townships would be preserved, and the lands would probably bring a better price to the Government, and be more valuable to the settlers;–and the only interferences with the proclamations, would be the suspension of a part of Township 24, Range 29, and the whole of fractional Township 26, Range
31.40
I respectfully submit this matter for your consideration, and upon receipt of your decision the necessary orders will be immediately issued to the Surveyor General and the Land officers.
With great respect, Your Obt. Servt.
JA" SHIELDS Commissioner HON: R. J. WALKER, Secy of the Treasy.
[Endorsed] Commissioner of the Genl. Land Office, dated May
14. 1845. in relation to the request of the Secretary of War for reservation of certain lands in Florida. Approved May 16, 1845, R J Walker Approved 19" May 1845—James K. Polk See “Map of the Seat of War in Florida”—in book of diagrams—also Letters to Secy of War"—Surveyor General of Florida”—& Regr & Rec" at St Augustine and Newnansville of 20 May 1845*—Recd May 19/45
* Not present. -
* Quere? ought not there be"T'29"N R. 24 E. & T. 30 N. R. 26 E. respectively in-as-much as 24 N.29 E. & 26 N 30 E. lie far without the limits referred to G.L.O. Jany. 6/52. [Marginal note on the MS.]
* Post, p. 1077.
* Post, p. 1078.
* Post, p. 1078.

</docbody>
<dochead>THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO THE PRESIDENT</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Misc. Lets. to Pres.]</source>
<place-time>TREASURY DEPARTMENT May 17th 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor herewith to submit the enclosed communications from the Secretary of War and the Commissioner of the Gen.'
Land office," with the accompanying papers, relative to an additional reservation of public lands around the District set apart for the use and occupancy of the Seminoles in Florida.
The Secretary of War proposes a reservation of twenty five miles around the District in question.” The Commissioner of the General Land Office suggests that the reservation be limited to twenty miles, as a reservation of that extent would probably accomplish the object of the War Department, & the only interference with the proclamation for sale now issued, would be the suspension of a part of township 24. Range 29 and the whole of fractional township 26. Range 30.
On the enclosed diagram, the Seminole District is represented, as nearly as practicable, by red lines, the reservation proposed by the War Department, as neutral ground by yellow lines, and the reservation as recommended by the Commissioner, by green lines. The townships colored blue have been proclaimed for sale, and it will be perceived that the reservation suggested by the Commissioner would interfere with the existing proclamation only to the extent before stated, and would preserve unbroken townships 25 & 29 of Range 22
& townships 33 & 34 of Range 21 which being now proclaimed, could by the adoption of that reservation, be offered for sale.
I approve of the reservation proposed by the Commissioner, and respectfully submit the papers, with my recommendations that it receive the sanction of the President.”
I have the honor to be, Very respectfully Yr obt. Servt.
R. J. Walker Secretary of the Treasury THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY TO JAMES SHIELDS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. from SG, Fla.:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Surveyor Gen ST. AUGUSTINE 19th May 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to inform you that I am having carefully prepared a Map showing the progress that has been made in the Surveys of Florida & the country yet to be surveyed.
“Ante, p. 1074.
* Ante, p. 1072.
*See post, p. 1077.

A copy of this map will at an early day be forwarded to your office.
A very large emigration is filling up portions of the Peninsula making it desirable that the country should be surveyed & brought into market as rapidly as possible.
In view of this fact & in accordance with the suggestions contained in your letter of Instructions of 17* Ult:" I shall confine the Surveys for the coming season principally to the subdivision of those Townships heretofore surveyed which contain lands desirable for immediate settlement.
In order that there might be no impediment to the sale of those rich & valuable Lands lying upon the Indian River country I have been making exertions to have the private claims in that vicinity located. One of my Deputies has recently returned—having located a number within his District, —and the Surveyor of private claims has with this object been sent to the same neighborhood.
I have the honor to be Very Resp” Yr. Obt. Svt.
V.Y.CONWAY Sr G!
HON. JA* SHIELDS Commissioner Gen' Land Office.
[Endorsed] St Augustine 19 May 1845—V.Y. Conway, S.G. Rel. to surveys &c & preparation of a certain map—No answer file Re" May
26/45
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES SHIELDS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Recd., S 146:LS]</source>
<place-time>GENERAL LAND OFFICE, May 20" 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, I have the honor to inform you, that the President of the United States on the 19* instant,” directed that a strip of the public lands, twenty miles in width, around the District set apart from the use and occupancy of the Seminoles in Florida, should be reserved from Survey and sale, as requested by you on the 10" instant;" and the necessary instructions to carry into effect this reservation, were this day sent to the Surveyor General of Florida, and the Land Officers at St Augustine and Newnansville, in Florida. The documents enclosed by you to the Secretary of the Treasury on the 10"
instant are herewith returned.
With great respect, Your Obt: Servt, JA" SHIELDS Commissioner HON: W* L. MARCY, Secy of War.
* NA(GLO, Lets. to SG, x), communicating relevant items in the appropriation act of Mar. 3, 1845, and stating that the employment of an additional clerk in the SG office would mean that salaries would be reduced.
* Not found.
* Ante, p. 1072.

[Endorsed] Hon" Jas: Shields General Land Office May 20/45
Has directed the strip of land 20 miles wide around Dist set apart for Seminols in Flo. to be reserved from Survey & sale. Returns papers Copy sent to Brig Genl Worth with letter dated May 26.
1845.” L.T. May. 24. 1845 146 149 C 1845. L. 82. Rec May 24/45
Adjt. Genl.
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES SHIELDS TO VALENTINE Y. CONWAY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to SG, X]</source>
<place-time>May 20* 1845—</place-time>
<docbody>W.Y. CONWAY Es Sur Genl St Augustine Florida–
SIR, I transmit herewith a “Map of the Seat of War in Florida”,”
in which the boundaries of the District set a part for the use and occupancy of the Seminoles, by Gen' Macomb in 1839, and Col Worth in 1842, are indicated as nearly correct as possible by red lines. Between these red lines, and those indicated in yellow on the accompanying map, is a strip of land twenty miles wide, which the President of the U. States on the 19* inst: directed should be reserved from survey and sale.” You will not therefore, under any circumstances, contract for the survey of the lands within this reservation, and if any of the contracts now in process of execution, or any part of them, are within these limits, you will direct the parties to close their labors within this reservation as speedily as possible, and if any surveys have been made within it since those of Mess”
Reed, Randolph and Whitner, under their contracts of 1842, you will not return the plats to the Land Offices.”
Very respectfully Your obtsvt JA" SHIELDS Commissioner 
</docbody>
<dochead>JAMES SHIELDS TO SAMUEL RUSSELL AND JOHN PARSONS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Lets. to Regs. and Recs., Bk. 19]</source>
<place-time>May 20" 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>REGISTER & RECEIVER, Newnansville, Florida.
GENTLEMEN, The President of the United States on the 19*
instant directed that a Strip of the public lands twenty miles in width, around the District set apart for the use and occupancy of

the Seminoles shall be reserved from survey and sale. The boundaries of this reservation are indicated by yellow lines on the accompanying diagram, and do not include any of the lands in your District embraced by the recent Proclamation of the President. Under no circumstances will you permit any sale or entry of any kind of the lands embraced within the lines of this reservation.
Very respectfully Your Ob" Serv"
</docbody>
<dochead>JA" SHIELDS Commissioner THE ADJUTANT GENERAL TO WILLIAM J. WORTH</dochead>
<source>[NA:WD, AGO Lets. Sent, Bk. 21]</source>
<place-time>Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, May 26* 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>BRIGR. GENERAL W. J. WORTH 8* Infy. Comdg. 9" Dept. St.
Augustine Florida.
SIR: I have the pleasure to enclose herewith a copy of a communication from the Commissioner of the General Land Office to the Secretary of War, dated the 20" instant,” by which you will see that a strip of land twenty miles in width around the district set apart for the temporary occupancy of the Seminole Indians in Florida, has been reserved from survey and sale. The suggestion for such reservation came to the General-in-Chief from Colonel S. Churchill, late Inspector General, in a communication dated March 31**-
I am Sir, &c.
R. JONES, Adjt. Gen.'
</docbody>
<dochead>VALENTINE Y. CONWAY  TO JAMES SHIELDS</dochead>
<source>[NA:GLO, Fla. Indian Reserv. File:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Office of the Sur. General ST. AUGUSTINE 5. June 1845.</place-time>
<docbody>SIR I have the honor to communicate herewith the copy of a letter just received from Gen. W. J. Worth comm’ding in Florida, in reference to the Indian boundary as designated upon the map furnished this Office With all due deference I would respectfully suggest that there is much force in the views of the Military Commander upon this subject
* Ante, p. 1077.
* Ante, p. 1039.
* Robert Butler was reappointed Surveyor General for Florida, Aug. 14, 1845, in succession to Conway. See Butler's report, Oct. 20, 1845 (S. Doc. 16, 29 Cong., 1 sess., p. 109).

& I feel very confident that if the Indian boundary proper is enlarged beyond its well defined limits (as clearly indicated in Order 27, a copy of which having accompanied the General's letter is herewith enclosed, much dissatisfaction will be manifested by those having already settled, or who are desirous to locate themselves upon some very good Lands which have been surveyed within the District of country embraced by the lines of the erroneous Map.
With this correction, the proposed neutral ground between the Indian & white settler will not include any established settlements, so far as I am informed.—
I shall be pleased to receive Your final views & Instructions upon this subject at your earliest convenience.”
I have the honor to be Very Respectfully Yr. Obt. Svt.
V. Y. CONWAY S G1
HON. JA" SHIELDS Commissioner Gen' Land Office.
[Endorsed] St Augustine 5* June 1845. W. Y. Conway S. G. Letter respecting Indian Boundary as designated on the map furnished his office. Encloses copy of letter from Gen' Worth, on the subject.
Also other documents. Requests final instructions. See letters to Sur Gen' Secy of War”—& Land officers at St. Augustine and Newnansville of 19 June 1845.” file with Military Reservations Mr Jn”
Wilson June 16/45 Copies of the enclosed sent to Commr of Ind"
Affairs, 24 Apl 1849"—Map of Neutral Ground In reference to surveying the lands occupied by the Indians in Florida as proposed by Hon M Mallory See report to Secretary of Interior 14" April 1850
[Enclosures]
William J. Worth to Valentine Y. Conway Head Quarters 9th Military Department, (Copy.) ST. AUGUSTINE, June 3d, 1845.
SIR, The map, herewith returned, used by the General Land Office in delineating the twenty mile reservation exterior to the temporary Indian boundary, as arranged in the pacification in 1842, was compiled at an early period of the War, necessarily mostly from imperfect data, and consequently, materially erroneous—whereby the new reservation directed by the President, as appears by the instructions to the Commissioner, is carried much further north than comports with the rights of settlers located on surveyed lands, or with the in-

terests of the service, and supposed necessities of the case—The Map of 1839, prepared by Lieutenant Blake and other officers, is accurate—
There is another material inaccuracy in tracing the line which Igranted the Indians in 1842—a departure from the text follows the north, instead of the south branch of Pease-Creek—see text and map herewith—I have caused the new or exterior line, to be traced on the latter, which is submitted for your examination, by which the serious errors will be manifest. I would respectfully suggest that the subject be promptly brought to the notice of the Commissioner of the General Land Office who will probably be able to obtain copies of the latter map at the Topographical bureau, cause the lines to be retraced thereon, and Substituted for such as may have been sent to you and the Land office in Florida: As drawn on the map of 1839, it is believed not to interfere with any settlers already located.
Very respectfully your obedient servant, (Signed).W. J. WORTH, Brigadier General Commanding.
DOCTOR. W. Y. CONWAY, Surveyor General of Florida, A true Copy. (Signed) J. T. SPRAGUE, Capt. A. D. C. & A. A. A.
General.
[Endorsed] Hol. Qrs. 9th Military Department, St. Augustine, Flo., June 3d, 1845, W. J. Worth, Brig. Gen. Comd'g, to Doctor W. Y.
Conway, Surveyor General of Florida. Copy for Commissioner of the General Land Office. Respectfully furnished. R. Jones Adjt.
Gnl. A. G. Office, Wash., June 18 1845.
Order No. 27 re Indian boundary line Copy Head Quarters Military Department N° 9.
Order No 27 CEDAR KEYS August 11" 1842
By arrangement with the few Indians remaining in the southern portion of Florida between whom and the whites hostilities no longer exist, they are permitted for a while to plant and hunt on the lands included within the following boundaries, to wit; from the mouth of
“Talakchop-ko” or “Pease Creek” up the left bank of that stream to the fork of the Southern branch, and following that branch to the head or northern edge of “Lake Istokpoga;” thence down the eastern margin of that Lake to the stream which empties from it into the
“Kissimmee” river, following the left banks of said stream and river to where the latter empties into “Lake Ockechobee,” thence due south through said lake and the Everglades to Shark river, following the right bank of that river to the Gulf; thence along the Gulf shore to the place of beginning, excluding all islands lying between “Punta Rassa” and the head of Charlotte Harbour. Within the boundaries thus described no settlements can with safety or propriety be formed, 563214–62–69

and any persons making settlements within those limits will be subjected to removal, in conformity with the laws in reference to Indians and their places of residence.
The foregoing temporary arrangement being in conformity with the instructions of the President of the United States, is communicated for the information of all whom it may concern.
By order of Colonel Worth
(Signed) S. COOPER, Assistant Adjutant General A true Copy JT SPRAGUE Capt A. D. C & A. A. A. G.
[Endorsed] (Copy) Order N° 27 H* Q" Military Dept. No 9.
Copy for V Y Conway Esq Surveyor Gen' of Florida JT Sprague Capt A. D. C. & A. A. A. G. H." Q" St Augustine F* June 3" 45
</docbody>
<dochead>DELEGATE LEVY TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:TD, ST Lets. from Individuals, Land Offices:ALS]</source>
<place-time>STAUGUSTINE June 9. 1845</place-time>
<docbody>DEAR SIR I wrote you a few hurried lines on my in to this city.
Lest it may not have reached you, I beg leave to repeat its subject.
I observe that Land sales have been advertised for Florida." The late administration had concured with me in a policy respecting the lands in Florida, which I was in hopes w” meet with your concurence.
We require military strength upon the exposed peninsula of Florida.
The only way to secure this is by encouraging the settlement of small farmers—I cannot explain to you fully by letter the mode in which the disposition of the public lands can be so arranged as to effect this, for I have not time. But this is certain, that the sales you propose, especially at the season appointed, will throw our lands entirely into the hands of speculators, and the consequence will be that emigration of the kind required to give strength will be arrested, & we shall have upon the most exposed & vulnerable point of the south—in fact the very key to the South—the element of weakness which an immense slave population will create. That you may form some conception of this, I will mention that before the war in one of the peninsula counties with a slave population of fourteen hundred there were only
10 or 15 voters. I sincerely trust that you will cause the order for sale to be rescinded, or at all events will direct it to be postponed to December next, before which time I will be able to confer with you.
In haste Yrs Very Respy D LEVY
HON R. J. WALKER Secy of the Treasy.
* Ante, p. 1070.

[Addressed] Hon Robt. J. Walker Secy of the Treasury Washington City [Postmarked] S*Augustine Fl. T. Jun 10 D Levy
[Endorsed] D Levy Relative to the Public Lands in Florida. St.
Augustine June 9” 1845
</docbody>
<dochead>GOVERNOR BRANCH TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Accts., No. 91,684:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Executive office TALLAHASSEE June 10" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, The Gen.' Assembly for the State of Florida will convene on the 23” Instant soon after which the official returns for the election of our Governor will be examined, and I shall be superseded by the Governor elect. My last quarters Salary will then fall due, which I
wish remitted to Mess Bryan & Maitland of New York, my commission merchants Will you do me the favour to cause the remittance to be made to them?”
I have the honor to be Your ob" S*
JN° BRANCH
HON R. WALKER Sec. of the T U.S.
[Addressed] Hon. R. M. Walker Secretary of the Treasury Washington City [Postmarked] Tallahassee Flor. Jun 10 Free
[Endorsed] Hon: John Branch Being superceded by the last election, desires his quarter salary to be remitted to Messers Bryan & Maitland N. Y. F. 89, June 18/45 1" Auditor PUBLIC NOTICE OF LAND SALE POSTPONEMENT
<source>[NA:GLO, Rec. of Procls., Bk. 2]</source>
<place-time>No. 396 [July 18, 1845]</place-time>
Postponement of public land Sales in Florida Public Notice is hereby given, that the public Sales of lands ordered by proclamation of the President of the United States dated the Ninth day of May 1845, to be held at the land offices at Newnansville, and Tallahassee, on the eleventh day of August next, and at the land office at St Augustine, on the eighteenth day of August, next, all situate in the State of Florida,—are declared to be postponed, until and to commence on the fifth day of January next-
* Attached to this letter is the certificate of the First Auditor of the Treasury, July 8, 1845, for $625 as Branch's salary from April 1 to June 30, 1845. Cf. post, p. 1084.

Given under my hand at the City of Washington, this 18" day of July A. D. 1845
JAMES K. POLK.
By the President:
JA" SHIELDS, Commissioner of the Gen' Land Office SECRETARY DUVAL TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
</docbody>
<dochead>TREASURY</dochead>
<source>[NA:GAO, Misc. Treas. Accts., No. 92,188:ALS]</source>
<place-time>Tallahassee—FLORIDA. September 18" 1845</place-time>
<docbody>SIR, My duties, as Secretary of the Territory of Florida, ceased on the 25" July last, on which day, as you will perceive from the accompanying Certificate," which I have the honor to enclose herewith, Ja's T. Archer Esq was duly qualified as Sec'y of State.
Being about to move to Texas, with the intention of locating there permanently, I beg leave to request that you will cause to be remitted to me, at this place, the small balance due me for the residue of my official term.
I have received my pay to the 30" June last, inclusive."
I am, very respectfully Your ob" Serv"
THO. H. DUVAL
HON: R. J. WALKER Sec'y of the Treasury